--- Page 1 ---
Coursebook
D125.ORG ADLAI E. STEVENSON @STEVENSONHS
Adlai E. Stevenson High School | 2026-27 Edition
Our Mission: Success for every student.

--- Page 2 ---
ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL | HOME OF THE PATRIOTS
PORTRAIT OF A STEVENSON GRADUATE VISION STATEMENT
Our tradition of sustained excellence has been built upon a foundation
of the search for continuous improvement and lifelong learning.
This vision statement reflects what we hope to become as a school
community. It is our vision for the future.
Our vision statement rests upon five pillars: curriculum; equity, access
and inclusivity; professional learning community; culture for learning;
and community engagement. Each pillar is detailed below.
CURRICULUM
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student,” we will implement a
guaranteed, viable and rigorous curriculum that meets the evolving
needs of our students while prioritizing active engagement and reflective
problem-solving. Our curriculum will encourage students to scrutinize
evidence of their learning, challenge their thinking and forge new
understandings. We will help students gain confidence, discover
their talents and develop the skills they need to succeed in life.
EQUITY, ACCESS AND INCLUSIVITY
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student,” we will recognize every
student as a valued individual. Students will learn in a safe, inclusive space,
where they are taught to understand the value of their own experiences in
relation to other, diverse perspectives. We will be relentless in removing
barriers to full equity, access and inclusivity in our curricular and
co-curricular programming. We will establish high academic and
behavioral expectations and we will provide students with the supports
required to help them meet or exceed those expectations.
PROFESSIONAL LEARNING COMMUNITY
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student,” we will sustain a culture
OUR STUDENTS WILL COMMIT TO THE FOLLOWING: focused on learning, collaboration and results. Our culture of continuous
improvement will be driven by collective inquiry, innovative instructional
COMMITMENT TO SELF practices and learning-centered assessment and grading practices. We will
implement impactful intervention strategies that provide students with more
• Pursue a balanced high school experience time and support when needed in order to ensure learning and achievement.
• Foster responsible, healthy and ethical As a model Professional Learning Community, we will participate in state,
decision-making skills national and global initiatives focused on improving educational outcomes.
• Develop a sense of resilience and self-awareness
CULTURE FOR LEARNING
• Demonstrate self-empowered and life-ready skills
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student,” all decision-making
processes will be based on the best interests of our students and their
COMMITMENT TO OTHERS learning. We will promote social-emotional learning and a healthy life
balance for all students as we nurture continuous improvement and growth
• Celebrate, honor and respect diverse people
in their curricular and co-curricular experiences. We will encourage students
and perspectives
to set attainable and aspirational goals, learn the value of hard work
• Develop a sense of empathy for those around them and dedication and embrace the challenges and opportunities they
• Serve local, national and global communities will experience in high school and beyond.
• Engage in civic duties and responsibilities COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student,” we will actively engage
and support the Stevenson High School community. We value and respect
COMMITMENT TO LEARNING
our community’s diverse perspectives and will provide opportunities for
• Strive for continuous improvement parents/guardians and others to inform and support the vision and values
• Foster a curious, creative and innovative mind of our school. We will forge collaborative partnerships with those who share
• Sustain a growth mindset when facing new challenges expertise, providing authentic and innovative student-learning experiences.
• Develop problem-solving and reflective skills We are committed to utilizing our resources and facilities to develop and
implement educational and recreational opportunities as we work to
• Collaborate and learn from and with others
connect the community and school.

--- Tables on Page 2 ---
Table 1:
OUR STUDENTS WILL COMMIT TO THE FOLLOWING:
COMMITMENT TO SELF
• Pursue a balanced high school experience
• Foster responsible, healthy and ethical
decision-making skills
• Develop a sense of resilience and self-awareness
• Demonstrate self-empowered and life-ready skills
COMMITMENT TO OTHERS
• Celebrate, honor and respect diverse people
and perspectives
• Develop a sense of empathy for those around them
• Serve local, national and global communities
• Engage in civic duties and responsibilities
COMMITMENT TO LEARNING
• Strive for continuous improvement
• Foster a curious, creative and innovative mind
• Sustain a growth mindset when facing new challenges
• Develop problem-solving and reflective skills
• Collaborate and learn from and with others | 
 | 

--- Page 3 ---
Dear Students and Parents/Guardians:
Stevenson High School has a proud tradition of offering an outstanding program
of academic courses, athletic programs and co-curricular activities. Our mission of
Success for Every Student leads us to seek offerings that will best prepare students for
life after high school. This coursebook provides a brief description of every course and
the sequencing of courses designed by each department. We offer a wide array of courses
in all subject areas demonstrating our commitment to helping all students establish a
broad foundation for future learning in college, in the workforce and beyond.
High school course selection can play a significant role in a student’s future options.
Designing a four-year, goal-oriented plan with a counselor is an important part of the
development of a coherent approach to course selection. We want every student to be
prepared for the future and that starts by making informed choices regarding the classes
to pursue in high school. Our counseling staff is available to help in any way possible.
For incoming freshmen, the course selection process begins with one of our Incoming
Freshman Parent/Guardian and Student Orientation Evenings (Wednesday, Jan. 7;
Thursday, Jan. 8; or Tuesday, Jan. 13, 2026). Together, with the information available
on our website (www.d125.org) and from our division directors, students can prepare
for one of our course selection evenings on Thursday, Jan. 15; Tuesday, Jan. 20; or
Wednesday, Jan. 21.
For current students, it is critical for both students and parents/guardians to be involved
in the course selection process and work closely with a counselor to make selections.
Your counselor is there to assist you along the way. Feel free to ask them questions. You
can also ask teachers or division directors about courses. Seeking out the information
you need will help you make better decisions about your classes for the next year.
In closing, the faculty and staff at Stevenson High School are here to support
the success of every student. Your involvement in that process is important. As you
progress through your four years at Stevenson High School, we hope that every
student is prepared for future success.
Sincerely,
One Stevenson Drive Troy Gobble
Lincolnshire, Illinois Principal
60069
847.415.4000
d125.org
Our mission: success for every student

--- Page 4 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS DIVISIONS
APPLIED ARTS ..........................................................................14
“46th Credit” Graduation Requirement ...................................5
Jacqueline King, Director
Academic Eligibility for Students in Co-Curriculars ...............12
Business Education .........................................................15
Academic Honors ....................................................................10 Driver Education ..............................................................19
ACT Graduation Requirement ...................................................4 Family and Consumer Sciences ......................................20
Lake County High Schools Technology Campus ............24
Administration Contact Information ....................................116
Appendix–Legal Notice .........................................................107 COMMUNICATION ARTS...........................................................25
Kimberly Musolf, Director
Athletic Program .....................................................................12
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND
Audits .........................................................................................7
TECHNOLOGY DIVISION (CSET) ..............................................33
Co-Curricular Activities and Clubs ..........................................13
Jacqueline King, Director
Course Availability .....................................................................3 Computer Science ...........................................................34
Course List by Name..............................................................110 Engineering ......................................................................37
Technology.......................................................................40
Course List by Number ..........................................................113
FINE ARTS ................................................................................43
Course Load ...............................................................................3
Jon Grice, Director
Course Retake Policy .................................................................7
Dance Department ..........................................................50
Course Selection .......................................................................3 Music Department ...........................................................53
Theatre Department ........................................................59
Driver Education Graduation Requirement ...........................19
Visual Arts Department....................................................44
Early Graduation .......................................................................8
Media Arts and Art History ..........................................45
External Credits .........................................................................7
MATHEMATICS .........................................................................62
FAFSA Graduation Requirement ...............................................5
Darshan Jain, Director
Four-Year Course Plan Worksheet ........................................117
MULTILINGUAL LEARNING.......................................................69
Grade Point Average ..................................................................8
Justin Fisk, Director
Grade Point Waiver ....................................................................9 English Language Development (ELD) Department ......80
Grading ......................................................................................8 Language Learning Department .....................................70
Graduation Requirements ....................................................... 4 PHYSICAL WELFARE .................................................................82
Abygail Austin, Director
Homework Requests .................................................................9
Health Education Department ........................................86
Honor Graduates .....................................................................11
Physical Education Department .....................................83
Incomplete Grade ......................................................................9
SCIENCE ...................................................................................87
Independent Study ...................................................................6 Dr. Steve Wood, Director
Level Changes ............................................................................6
SOCIAL STUDIES ......................................................................92
National Honor Society ...........................................................11 Brad Smith, Director
NCAA Eligibility Requirements ..................................................6
SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES ............................................104
P.E. Waiver Policy .....................................................................11 Traci Wallen, Director
Schedule Changes .....................................................................6
STUDENT ACTIVITIES ..............................................................13
School Day Schedule ................................................................3 Dr. Dave Eddy, Director
Seal of Biliteracy Program ......................................................10 STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS .........................................101
Brett Erdmann, Director
Summer School .........................................................................7
Transcripts ...............................................................................10 STUDENT SERVICES ..............................................................116
Sarah Bowen, Director
Transfer Students ......................................................................9
Waiver Policies.........................................................................11
2 ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL

--- Page 5 ---
COURSE SELECTION COURSE LOAD
Every student must be enrolled in the following each semester:
Each year, students meet with counselors to choose courses
for the following academic year. Students are encouraged to ■ At least five credits of coursework
work with counselors, teachers and parents to select courses ■ A sixth supervised period (either an additional class
that support their goals and interests and align with their or a full-period study hall)
health and wellness. Course verification sheets are sent home
■ A Physical Welfare, Dance and/or Driver Education
each spring to ensure accuracy. Freshman course placements
course (or meet the criteria to qualify for a waiver)
are determined through criteria set by each division and
will be shared with incoming freshman families shortly after ■ Lunch period
the orientation evenings in January. The master schedule Students must meet the State of Illinois requirement of
is created each spring based on student course selections. 300 minutes of supervision each day.
Requests for course changes after this point may not be
possible due to course availability. COURSE AVAILABILITY
Note: Students interested in any dual credit courses must meet All courses listed in this coursebook require a sufficient
admission requirements set forth by the crediting college/university. number of student requests to run in a given year. If there
is not sufficient interest in a particular course, it will not
GRADUATION PLANNER
be provided during the upcoming school year. Sectioning
We encourage all students to reach well beyond the decisions are made in early March. Counselors will contact
minimum graduation requirements and to make the most students who may need to select another course.
of the educational opportunities that Stevenson provides.
Freshmen, along with their counselors, begin the discussion STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL
of their four-year course plan in their Freshman Advisory and MINIMUM GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
during Student-Counselor-Parent/Guardian-Engagement
English 8 semesters/credits
(SCoPE) meetings. Students are encouraged to review their
four-year plan with their parents/guardians each year, before Mathematics 6 semesters/credits
course selection begins, so that long-term curriculum goals Biology 2 semesters/credits
can be planned and achieved as the students progress
Physical Science 2 semesters/credits
through their high school years. All students have the
opportunity to update their plans at any time by meeting U.S. History 2 semesters/credits
with their counselor. A planning worksheet is located at the
World History and
back of this coursebook.
Geography 2 semesters/credits
SCHOOL DAY SCHEDULE Government 1 semester/credit
The school day at Stevenson High School extends from Economics or
8:30 a.m. to 3:25 p.m. Students are expected to be in Personal Finance 1 semester/credit
attendance during these hours. There are eight, 47-minute
Health 1 semester/credit
periods in each school day, including a mandatory lunch
Driver Education 1 semester/credit
period. “Early bird” classes are also offered in Physical
Education and certain AP Science classes. Alternate schedules Required Electives 2 semesters/credits
are followed periodically throughout the school year to allow
Additional Credits
for various activities and meetings.
and P.E. 17 semesters/credits
Total Credits 45 semesters/credits
SUGGESTED COLLEGE
ADMISSION SEQUENCE
English 8 semesters/credits
Mathematics 6-8 semesters/credits
Science 6-8 semesters/credits
Social Science 6-8 semesters/credits
Foreign Language 4-8 semesters/credits
WWW.D125.ORG 3

--- Page 6 ---
CIVICS AND PATRIOTISM GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS PHYSICAL WELFARE GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
AND WAIVERS
Students who pass their required government course satisfy
the one-semester state civics requirement. Students must Students must participate in Physical Education during each
also pass specific assessments on Patriotism and Principles semester they are enrolled in school unless:
of Representative Government in their required government ■ The student is enrolled in Dance
course to satisfy the state requirement for graduation.
■ The student is enrolled in Health Education
(for the first time)
DRIVER EDUCATION GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
The State of Illinois Driver Education requirement ■ The student is enrolled in Applied Health
may be satisfied by: completing Driver Education at ■ The student is enrolled in Driver Education
Stevenson, submitting a Certificate of Successful Completion (for the first time)
from a commercial school or submitting a copy of the
■ The junior or senior student receives an athletic
student’s Illinois driver’s license if issued prior to age 18.
waiver (see Athletic Waiver Policy)
Students must earn eight credits in their previous two
semesters in order to be eligible for Driver Education. ■ The student receives a Marching Band or
Color Guard waiver
ELECTIVE GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
■ The senior student receives an academic waiver
At least two elective semester credits must come from any
Refer to the section on waiver policies for more specific
of the following divisions: Applied Arts, Fine Arts, Multilingual
information.
Learning and/or Computer Science, Engineering and
Technology. Note: Students may elect to stay in Physical Education and forfeit
any waivers.
ECONOMICS OR PERSONAL FINANCE
GRADUATION REQUIREMENT SCIENCE GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
Students must complete a semester of economics or Students must complete two semesters of a biological science
personal finance. This requirement can be fulfilled by one and two semesters of a physical science in order to graduate.
of the following courses: Economics, AP Macroeconomics,
SOCIAL STUDIES GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
AP Microeconomics or Personal Finance.
Social studies graduation requirements are course
ENGLISH GRADUATION REQUIREMENT specific and include two semesters/credits of U.S. History
Eight credits are required for graduation which should (or AP U.S. History); two semesters/credits of World History
be taken one per semester unless a student is planning and Geography; one semester/credit of Government
to graduate early. For these classes, two writing-intensive (or AP United States Government and Politics), including
courses are required. These courses will be detailed in passing specific assessments on Patriotism and Principles
the course descriptions. of Representative Government in their required government
course to satisfy the state requirement for graduation.
HEALTH GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
ACT GRADUATION REQUIREMENT
One semester/credit of Health Education is required
for graduation, including participation in a unit on The ACT is the state’s high school accountability exam in
Adult CPR. Illinois. All students in public high schools are required to
participate in the ACT Suite of Assessments. Stevenson High
MATHEMATICS GRADUATION REQUIREMENT School adheres to the requirements of the Illinois State Board
At least six semesters/credits are required for graduation, of Education (ISBE) and will administer the Digital PreACT 9
including algebra and at least one course with geometry to all freshman students, Digital PreACT to all sophomore
content. students and the Digital School-day ACT to all junior students.
It is important to note that the school-day ACT given to juniors
in the spring is a graduation requirement in the State of
Illinois. No other ACT administration fulfills this requirement.
ACT scores are not included on a student’s transcript.
For information on the Suite of Assessments and more detail
on the timeline of these exams, please visit Stevenson’s
website at: www.d125.org.
4 ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL

--- Page 7 ---
FAFSA GRADUATION REQUIREMENT ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS TO
PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES IN ILLINOIS
The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is an
application used by colleges and other post-secondary It is important to emphasize that the graduation requirements
institutions to determine a student’s eligibility for need-based listed previously represent the minimum program of studies
federal financial aid such as grants, loans and work-study for Stevenson students. Entrance requirements to particular
programs. In accordance with Public Act 101-0180, students colleges and universities may be considerably more stringent.
must complete one of the following steps in order to graduate The following high school program is either required or
from an Illinois public high school: strongly encouraged for admission to all public universities
■ File a FAFSA; OR in Illinois:
■ File an alternative application for Illinois Financial Aid. COURSE REQUIREMENTS
The alternative application should only be completed
English 8 semesters/credits
by students not eligible to submit the FAFSA. More
Emphasis on written and oral
information regarding eligibility requirements for the
communication and literature
alternative application may be found on the Illinois
Mathematics 6 semesters/credits
Student Assistance Commission (ISAC) website; OR
Including algebra, advanced algebra,
■ Complete the FAFSA non-participation form through geometry and/or trigonometry
the Illinois Student Assistance Commission (ISAC) Science 6 semesters/credits
portal. Emphasis on laboratory sciences with
a foundation in biology, chemistry
More detailed information will be shared with students and
and physics
families in the fall of their senior year. Families may reach out
Social Studies 6 semesters/credits
to their school counselor with any questions/concerns.
Emphasis on history and government
THE “46TH CREDIT” GRADUATION REQUIREMENT Electives 4 semesters/credits
Four semesters in Multilingual Learning,
Although it is not one of the 45 credits required for graduation
Applied Arts or Fine Arts
from Stevenson High School, the “46th Credit” is as important
as the rest. The “46th Credit” fulfills a District 125 commitment
to provide students with a coordinated education and
For details on specific course requirements visit the College
awareness program with critical information about alcohol
Career Center or individual college websites.
and other drug use, as well as resources for support.
During their years at Stevenson High School, students are
provided with information about substance abuse and
are introduced to a variety of substance abuse prevention
activities through Stevenson High School’s Student Assistance
Program. During this Drug Education unit in the Health
Education classes, all students are issued a “46th Credit”
manual, which contains current information on the dangers
associated with tobacco, alcohol and other drug use,
addiction, recovery, available student prevention programs,
school tobacco/drug/alcohol policies, state laws and local
ordinances, as well as resources for assistance within the
school and community. Students are held accountable for
this information and must pass an exam during their Health
Education class in order to satisfy this requirement. This exam,
devised by the school’s Substance Use Prevention Specialist,
is based directly on the information contained in the “46th
Credit” manual. The Substance Use Prevention Specialist
personally works with all students who have not taken or
passed the “46th Credit” exam in the Health Education classes
to ensure that this requirement is met. Seniors must have
passed the “46th Credit” exam in order to participate in the
graduation ceremony.
WWW.D125.ORG 5

--- Page 8 ---
NCAA ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS LEVEL CHANGES
FOR DIVISION I AND II ATHLETES
On occasion, students may need to change the level of
Students who are interested in competing in athletics at the the class in which they are enrolled. In order to do so,
Division I or Division II collegiate level must meet the academic students must:
eligibility requirements of the National Collegiate Athletic ■ Initiate a level change discussion with their teacher
Association (NCAA). For more information on the Division I and
■ Demonstrate that they have completed all homework
Division II eligibility requirements, please visit: www.ncaa.org/
and sought additional help from the teacher or
student-athletes/future/academic-standards-initial-eligibility.
learning center staff
For the most up-to-date list of Stevenson High School’s
■ Demonstrate that they have discussed the level change
approved core courses:
request with their counselor
■ Go to: https://web3.ncaa.org/hsportal/exec/
■ Request that their teacher complete the “Level
homeAction
Change” form
■ Type Stevenson’s code 143550 in the “NCAA High
■ After the teacher contacts the parents/guardians, the
School Code” box, then select “Search”
request will be forwarded to the counselor and content
■ Select a core area or choose: “Show All Approved
area director for approval.
Courses”
Students must remain in class until the level change is
■ To view a PDF of initial coursework, visit:
approved by the director and made by the counselor.
http://fs.ncaa.org/Docs/eligibility_center/Student_
Downward level changes will be permitted up through the
Resources/IE_Brochure.pdf
end of the first eight weeks of the semester. The letter grade
Please contact your counselor with any questions or concerns
at the time of withdrawal from the class is the grade that
regarding NCAA eligibility.
accompanies the student to their new class. As the semester
progresses, the teacher will review the student’s grade to
SCHEDULE CHANGES ensure that it accurately reflects mastery of the new
course’s learning targets.
Each year, a new master schedule is created to accommodate
students’ course selections. Students may modify their
course requests at designated times during the spring and SPECIAL SCHEDULING PROVISIONS
summer. Please note that schedule change requests may not
INDEPENDENT STUDY
be possible based on the availability of courses. Requests for
teacher changes will not be honored. Students will be able to The Independent Study option allows juniors and seniors,
view their final schedule through Infinite Campus during the with a special interest in a subject, to pursue that area of
week before school begins. interest in more detail or greater depth than the existing
curriculum provides. Students who wish to undertake an
ONCE THE SEMESTER HAS BEGUN, SCHEDULE independent study project must:
CHANGE REQUESTS MUST ADHERE TO THE
■ Develop a proposal which includes clearly-stated goals,
FOLLOWING GUIDELINES:
the learning activities designed to achieve these goals
ADDING A COURSE and a schedule detailing the timeline of the project
Students may add a course in place of a free hour, study hall ■ Complete the “Independent Study” form
or another class during the first three days of a semester if
located online
space is available in the course. Students must consult with
■ Obtain parent/guardian, teacher, director and
the teacher regarding make-up requirements for any missed
counselor approval of the project
content.
■ Solicit the help of a teacher advisor to supervise
DROPPING A COURSE
the study
Students may withdraw from a one-semester course up
■ Be scheduled into a full-period course with the
through the end of the first eight weeks of each semester.
teacher advisor
Please note that in a full-year course, students will only
■ Attend that course every day
have the first three days of the second semester to drop.
When dropping the second semester of a full-year course, the ■ Pursue the project with a minimum of direction
final first semester grade remains on the student’s transcript.
■ Complete the project and report its results as agreed
Students must maintain a minimum of five courses for credit.
upon in the project proposal
6 ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL

--- Page 9 ---
Independent study will count towards the 300-minute EXTERNAL CREDITS
supervision requirement and P.E. waivers. Successful
Stevenson students may apply for up to four credits of external
completion of an independent study project will result in
study toward the completion of elective credits required for
a grade of “P” (Pass). Projects that are not completed will
graduation. Only elective courses necessary to satisfy the
not receive a grade.
45 credits needed for graduation may be taken for external
Credits will be determined by the director and teacher. credit. A maximum of two external credits can be earned for
a Multilingual Learning course. Courses offered at Stevenson
COURSE RETAKE POLICY
will not be approved for external credit. External credits are
Students may retake any course, however, the original grade
not calculated in the grade point average (GPA). No external
will remain on the transcript. The GPA will be determined by
credits will be given for work done prior to the student
using the points from the higher of the two grades. Duplicate
entering high school in the fall term.
credit will not be issued. Students must complete a “Course
All external credits must come from accredited programs
Retake” form available online before beginning the course.
approved by the Assistant Principal for Teaching and Learning
Courses taken at a lower level are not considered course
(e.g. summer school at another high school or a college/
retakes. Students may retake a course at a higher level if it
university course).
is an equivalent course in terms of content. Course retake
does count towards the 300-minute supervision requirement. Students must apply for external credit. No credit will be given
Students wishing to retake a course in the summer at a without an application. To apply for external credit, a student
different high school need to consult their counselor prior must meet with their counselor prior to taking the course to:
to registering to begin the approval process. ■ Complete an “External Credit” form; and
If a grade of “A” was earned the first time, then a course ■ Provide a complete course description including
may not be retaken.
information about the accredited institution, the
program or course content and the number of
AUDITS
contact hours
Audits do not count toward academic or athletic waivers,
but they do count toward the 300-minute supervision Upon completion of the course, the student will produce an
requirement. Students who wish to audit a class may do official transcript mailed directly from the program to the
so provided: registrar’s office at Stevenson High School. The approval
process should be completed before the course is taken or
■ They obtain an “Audit Request” form from their
Stevenson credit may not be given.
counselor
■ There is availability in the classroom SUMMER SCHOOL
■ They request the audit within the first ten days Stevenson’s summer academic program offers opportunities
of the semester for enrichment and remediation. Certain courses taken from
this program become part of the student’s transcript. Summer
■ Receive approval of the division director
courses may be taken during the student’s attendance in
■ They attend the class each day, complete all high school. Students must complete an “External Credit”
assignments, take exams and finals and participate form and request course approval prior to enrolling in any
in all class activities summer school class outside of Stevenson. Only courses not
offered through Stevenson’s summer school are eligible for
Students will be assigned the grade of “AU” (Audit); they
external credit. Students attending summer school in another
receive no credit towards graduation nor points for inclusion
accredited high school district must request that the school
in their grade point average.
forward their grades to the Stevenson registrar. Summer
If a student fails to fulfill a requirement in a course taken on an
school credit obtained at a high school other than Stevenson
audit basis, the student will be withdrawn from the course. No
is considered external credit and is not included in the
record of enrollment will appear on the student’s transcript.
calculation of the student’s grade point average.
WWW.D125.ORG 7

--- Page 10 ---
EARLY GRADUATION GRADE POINT AVERAGE
Students wishing to graduate early should meet with their Both a weighted and an unweighted grade point average are
counselor to determine eligibility. Once it is determined calculated for each student at the conclusion of each semester
that the student can meet graduation requirements earlier and again after summer school.
than the scheduled semester of graduation, the student,
■ Weighted grade point average is calculated using the
with parent/guardian approval, must complete an “Intent
weights assigned to the grades in the chart below.
to Graduate Early” form available online.
■ Unweighted grade point average is calculated by
assigning college prep grade points to all grades that
GRADING
are calculated into the grade point average, regardless
Our grading model measures the student’s mastery of their level.
of the course’s skills and standards. The final grade
A B C D F
is a determination of the student’s body of work with
COLLEGE PREP 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0
consideration of their recent trend.
ACCELERATED 4.5 3.5 2.5 1.5 0
Because our grading model uses proficiency scales to
collect accurate evidence of student performance and AP/HONORS 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 0
growth, students can reflect on and grow their knowledge
COLLEGE PREP COURSES
and skills throughout the semester. At the end of the semester,
the teacher reviews the body of evidence presented by each College prep courses provide students with the traditional
student and determines a letter grade. Student grades are college preparatory program. These courses are designed
based on evidence of student proficiency in course skills to prepare the student for entrance into college and for
and content standards. academic success in the college classroom. Students have
an opportunity to pursue four years of English, Mathematics,
The purpose of grades is to provide the teacher, student
Science, Social Studies and Multilingual Learning.
and parents/guardians as accurate a picture as possible of
the student’s competence in course skills and to encourage
HONORS/ACCELERATED COURSES
a dialogue about how the student can grow in the content in
These courses enable students to prepare for and pursue
the class. Additionally, each assessment provides feedback
college-level studies while still in high school. Students who
for the student about what skills and standards they mastered
complete honors/accelerated level courses may have the
and which they need more work on. If at any point the student
opportunity to earn college credit or placement through
is reassessed on a course standard and shows a higher level of
AP exams.
proficiency, this will be reflected in the teacher grade book.
Please visit https://www.d125.org/academics/grading for ADVANCED PLACEMENT (AP) COURSES
more details about how the final letter grade is calculated Students have the opportunity to complete advanced
and communicated. placement courses in most subject areas. The content of these
college-level courses is determined by the College Board.
COURSE DESCRIPTION
Students who score well on these exams may be awarded
Within the first five days of the semester, all teachers will college credit in many of the nation’s colleges and universities.
provide students with a course description. This description In assessing a student’s application, many colleges also look
will explain the general goals of the course, the specific favorably upon courses designated as AP since these courses
knowledge and skills acquired as a result of the course, the represent more rigorous content than the standard high
activities that will be included and the procedures for grading. school curriculum. Students are encouraged to investigate the
AP policy of the college of their choice. In preparation for some
AP courses at Stevenson High School, students may need to
complete summer work. Summer assignments are available
in the late spring via the school’s website.
8 ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL

--- Page 11 ---
EXCLUSIONS TRANSFER STUDENTS
The following courses are not included in the calculation
The records of transfer students will be evaluated
of a student’s grade point average:
individually to determine the credits which may be applied
■ Driver Education toward Stevenson graduation requirements. Coursework
■ Courses with grades of pass (P) or fail (F) completed by students prior to their enrollment at Stevenson
will not be included in the calculation of the student’s GPA.
■ Correspondence courses
Any coursework completed by students through international
■ Audit, independent study and GPA-waived courses schools prior to their enrollment at Stevenson will be given
■ External credit courses a grade of pass (P) or fail (F). The division director will make
the final determination in the evaluation of the records of
■ Any course in which the regular outcomes have been
the transfer student. Transfer students are encouraged to
significantly modified for an individual student
submit a transcript directly from each school attended when
GRADE POINT WAIVER fulfilling transcript requests to ensure the most accurate
representation of their academic experience.
Students have the option of applying to exclude certain
courses from the calculation of their grade point average
(GPA). These courses are those which are not considered part HOMEWORK REQUESTS
of the academic core and which do not fulfill a Stevenson
Students are responsible for requesting and making up
graduation requirement. Included in this waiver option are:
classwork if they are absent from class.
■ All college preparatory-level Applied Arts courses
When students are absent from class, please follow
■ All college preparatory-level Fine Arts courses these suggestions:
■ All college preparatory-level Computer Science, ■ Review assignment sheet, if available
Engineering and Technology (CSET) courses ■ Review the class Canvas page
■ Broadcast Journalism, Journalistic Writing and ■ Email the teacher
Advanced Journalistic Writing courses
■ Utilize the Interactive Report Card (IRC)
■ Physical Education Leadership, Pool Leadership and
■ Contact each teacher on their homework policy
Applied Health courses
If a student is out longer than five consecutive days, please
■ All college-prep level summer school courses which
contact their counselor to develop a plan.
are not part of the regular school year course offerings
(See Summer School Coursebook for specific courses
and deadlines for submission.) INCOMPLETE GRADE
To be eligible for a waiver, the student must be enrolled in Students who receive a grade of “Incomplete” must complete
four or more courses per semester which are included in the the necessary make-up work in a timely fashion according
GPA. The “Request for GPA Waiver” form is available online. to each teacher’s guidelines before a letter grade will be
All waivers must be requested; no courses will have an assigned. Incomplete grades do not count towards credits
automatic waiver. Please see the Summer School Coursebook needed for athletic and co-curricular eligibility.
for specific information regarding courses and deadlines
offered during the summer.
WWW.D125.ORG 9

--- Page 12 ---
TRANSCRIPTS Proficiency in a language other than English is demonstrated
by meeting one of the following criteria:
Students may request transcripts by logging onto
www.parchment.com. Some transcripts might require a fee ■ Earn a 4 or 5 on the Advanced Placement language
to be submitted online prior to the request being processed. exam. OR
College admission test scores are not included on the ■ Earn a minimum score of I-5 on all four components of
transcripts. Students must request these test scores to be sent ACTFL’s Assessment of Performance toward Proficiency
directly to colleges and universities. This may be done through in Languages (AAPPL) exam. The following languages
the various testing agencies’ websites. can be assessed via the AAPPL exam: Arabic, Chinese
(Mandarin), French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean,
For information regarding ACT test scores, visit:
Portuguese, Spanish, Thai and ESL. The AAPPL ALIRA
https://www.act.org/content/act/en/products-and-services/
exam is used to assess Latin. OR
the-act/scores.html
■ Earn a minimum score of Intermediate High on all four
For SAT exam scores, visit:
components of Avant’s Standards-based Measurement
https://satsuite.collegeboard.org/sat/scores/getting-scores/
of Proficiency (STAMP) 4S exam. The following
your-scores
languages can be assessed with the STAMP 4S exam:
For AP exam scores, visit: Hebrew, Hindi, Polish and Russian.
https://apstudents.collegeboard.org/view-scores
■ For languages for which an AAPPL or STAMP is not
currently available, the ALTA exam may be offered.
ACADEMIC HONORS
Students that do not meet the minimum scores required
to attain the Seal of Biliteracy may still qualify for the
SEAL OF BILITERACY PROGRAM
Commendation toward Biliteracy. Students must still
Stevenson High School students have the opportunity to be
demonstrate proficiency in English by meeting the
recognized by the State of Illinois for earning proficiency in
aforementioned criteria (see previous). Progress toward
English and at least one additional language. The Illinois State
proficiency in a language other than English is
Board of Education (ISBE) Seal of Biliteracy program will place
demonstrated by meeting one of the following criteria:
an official seal on diplomas and confer official recognition on
transcripts of those students who qualify. ■ Earn a 3 on the Advanced Placement language exam
taken as a junior. OR
Two honors are available: the Seal of Biliteracy and the
Commendation toward Biliteracy. The Seal of Biliteracy is ■ Earn a minimum score of I-1, I-2, I-3 or I-4 across the
awarded to those whose proficiency level is equivalent to the four domains of ACTFL’s Assessment of Performance
Intermediate High scale set by the American Council on the toward Proficiency in Languages (AAPPL) exam. The
Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). The Commendation of following languages can be assessed with the AAPPL
Biliteracy is awarded to students whose proficiency level is rated exam: Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, German,
at Intermediate Low or Intermediate Mid in a second language. Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish, Thai
and ESL. OR
To qualify for the Seal of Biliteracy, students must
demonstrate proficiency in English via the SAT, ACT or ■ Earn a minimum score of Intermediate Low or
ACCESS exam, demonstrate proficiency in another language(s) Intermediate Mid on all four components of Avant’s
and satisfy all requirements for graduation from Stevenson Standards-based Measurement of Proficiency (STAMP)
High School. 4S exam. The following languages can be assessed with
the STAMP 4S exam: Hebrew, Hindi, Polish and Russian.
English proficiency is demonstrated by meeting one of the
following criteria during a student’s high school career:
■ Earn a minimum score of 18 in the ELA portion of
the ACT with writing. OR
■ Earn a minimum score of 480 on the Evidence-Based
Reading and Writing portion of the SAT. OR
■ Earn a minimum overall composite score of 4.8 on
the ACCESS for ELDs exam.
10 ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL

--- Page 13 ---
NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY WAIVER POLICIES
The four pillars of National Honor Society are: leadership,
ATHLETIC WAIVER POLICY: ELIGIBILITY
character, service and scholarship. Sophomores and juniors
The athletic waiver from Physical Education is an option only
with a cumulative 3.90 weighted grade point average are
for juniors and seniors. A student who has earned a Junior
reviewed for membership in National Honor Society by a
Varsity or Varsity letter may be eligible to preregister for an
faculty council selected by the principal. The faculty council
athletic waiver. Student athletes must register for athletics to
reviews leadership, service and character for the selection
receive a waiver and meet with their counselor.
process as per the National Association of Secondary School
Principals’ Constitution. Criteria for a non-credit waiver: A junior or senior
athlete in one sport and six credit-bearing classes.
Members are expected to attend all general meetings
throughout the year. All members are expected to maintain Criteria for a credit waiver: A junior or senior athlete in
their grade point average and have three service experiences, two sports and five credit-bearing classes.
one of which must be a sustained experience and one of which Note: If a student athlete reduces the number of academic classes, fails
must be NHS-sponsored. For more information regarding to participate in a sport or for any reason fails to continue participating
in a sport, they will be immediately placed in Physical Education by their
National Honor society, please visit the Stevenson High
school counselor. Depending on a student’s schedule, an elective course
School website: www.d125.org.
may have to be dropped to accommodate the Physical Education class.
HONOR GRADUATES
ACADEMIC WAIVER POLICY: ELIGIBILITY
Students who have earned at least 42 credits at the end of
A senior may receive an academic waiver from Physical
seven semesters and who have a weighted cumulative grade
Education if the student is enrolled in six credit-bearing
point average listed below are eligible to be declared Honor
classes. The student must demonstrate that each of these
Graduates:
classes are necessary to satisfy Stevenson graduation
4.0 and above Highest Honors requirements and/or admission requirements of a
post-secondary program.
3.75-3.99 High Honors
A senior who receives an academic waiver from Physical
3.50-3.74 Honors
Education will not receive credit for this course.
MARCHING BAND AND COLOR GUARD
PHYSICAL EDUCATION (P.E.) WAIVER POLICY
Any student, grade 9-10-11-12, who is enrolled in Wind
Ensemble, Symphonic Band, Wind Symphony, Freshman Band
or Color Guard and is a member of the Marching Band may
waive their P.E. requirement for the first semester. This waiver
may be applied each fall semester throughout a student’s
years of participation in Marching Band.
WWW.D125.ORG 11

--- Page 14 ---
ATHLETIC PROGRAM
Stevenson High School is a member of the Illinois
High School Association (IHSA) and competes within
the North Suburban Conference (NSC).
BOYS FALL BOYS WINTER BOYS SPRING
Allied Bowling Allied Basketball Allied Soccer
Cheerleading Allied Spirit Revolution Baseball
Cross Country Basketball Gymnastics
Football Bowling Lacrosse
Golf Competitive Cheerleading Student Athletic Training
Competitive Dance Competitive Dance Tennis
Soccer Fencing Track and Field
Student Athletic Training Ice Hockey Volleyball
Student Athletic Training Water Polo
Swimming and Diving
Wrestling
GIRLS FALL GIRLS WINTER GIRLS SPRING
Allied Bowling Allied Basketball Allied Soccer
Cheerleading Allied Spirit Revolution Badminton
Cross Country Basketball Lacrosse
Field Hockey Bowling Soccer
Flag Football Competitive Cheerleading Softball
Competitive Dance Competitive Dance Student Athletic Training
Golf Fencing Track and Field
Student Athletic Training Gymnastics Water Polo
Swimming and Diving Ice Hockey
Tennis Student Athletic Training
Volleyball Wrestling
ACADEMIC ELIGIBILITY
The primary purpose of Stevenson High School is to promote academic achievement. Therefore,
students engaged in those areas of the extracurricular/co-curricular program, which make significant
demands on their time must perform satisfactorily in the classroom in order to continue their
participation in those extracurricular/co-curricular activities. In order to be eligible to participate in an
extracurricular/co-curricular activity, students must meet the weekly scholastic standing requirements
of the Illinois High School Association. Students must be passing 25 credit hours each week. Students
must also pass five classes in the previous semester to be eligible for the upcoming season. See the
Student Guidebook for the Extracurricular/Co-Curricular Code of Conduct that details the specific rules,
expectations and consequences.
12 ATHLETICS

--- Tables on Page 14 ---
Table 1:

GIRLS FALL GIRLS WINTER GIRLS SPRING
Allied Bowling Allied Basketball Allied Soccer
Cheerleading Allied Spirit Revolution Badminton
Cross Country Basketball Lacrosse
Field Hockey Bowling Soccer
Flag Football Competitive Cheerleading Softball
Competitive Dance Competitive Dance Student Athletic Training
Golf Fencing Track and Field
Student Athletic Training Gymnastics Water Polo
Swimming and Diving Ice Hockey
Tennis Student Athletic Training
Volleyball Wrestling

--- Page 15 ---
CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES AND CLUBS SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE
ABOUT CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
AND CLUBS ONLINE: www.d125.org/
DR. DAVID EDDY, DIRECTOR | DEDDY@D125.ORG | 847-415-4461 student-life/activities
Stevenson offers a rich array of co-curricular activities, and every student is encouraged
to select one or more of these programs in which to participate. For the most current list
of our activities, please visit: www.d125.org/student-life/activities.
2D + 3D Art Studio Ethics Bowl IM Taekwondo Rotary Youth Club (RYC) (Interact)
Aerospace + Aviation Club Everlasting Promise in Christ IM Volleyball League (Co-Ed) Scholastic Bowl-Varsity and JV
(E.P.I.C.)* (Quiz Bowl, SchoBowl)
Ambassador Yearbook Improv Comedy Team
Family, Career and Community “Failed Presidential Candidates” Science Bowl
Animal Welfare Club (AWC)
Leaders of America (FCCLA)
In the Loop (Knitting Club) Science Olympiad Team
Anime, Comics and Games Club
Filipino American Student
(ACG) Interactive Gamers Club (IGC) Science REACH Club
Association (FASA)
Archery Club International Thespian Society (ITS) Script Studio (TBA)
Film Club
Architecture + Engineering Club Investment + Financial Literacy Club Sexuality and Gender Alliance
FIRE (Fostering Inter-Cultural
(SAGA)
Art Club Respect and Empowerment Club) Japan Club
SHS Amplified
Art From The Heart (AFH) Flute Choir Jazz Ensemble
SHS-TV
Asian American Student Association Free The Children (FTC) Key Club International
Skatriots
Auto Club French Club | French Honor Society Kiva
Badminton Club (Boys) (FHS) Korean Club South Asian Student Association
Baroque Ensemble + Viol Consort Freshman Mentor Program (FMP) Latin American Student Organization Spanish Club
Bass Fishing Friends International (LASO) Spanish Honor Society
Best Buddies Future Business Leaders of America Latin Club Spoken Word
(FBLA) Law Club Sports Analytics Club
Best Buddies Transition
Future Doctors of America Lean In Feminism Club Start-Ups in Business + Technology
Biology Olympiad
Future Educators of America (FEA) Low Frequency Statesman Newspaper
Bird Watching
Future Health Professionals (HOSA) Marching Band Stevenson A Capella
Black Student Union
Future Nurses of America (FNA) Mascot | Pep Club Stevenson Ambassadors
Breakfast with Books
Garden | Horticulture Club Math Team Stevenson Backstage
Boys Badminton
Geography Club (Geo Club) Mélange Dance Company Stevenson Network News (SNN)
Business Professionals of America
(BPA) German Club | German Honor Mind Your Mind Stevenson Peer Theater (SPT)
Society (Snowflake)
Calligraphy Club Mock Trial
Girls in STEAM Stevenson Sports Broadcasting
Catalyst Model United Nations Team
Greek Club Stevenson Strength + Conditioning
Charity Treats Mongolian American Student
Green Team Organization (MASO) (SSC) (Co-Ed)
Chemistry Club
Guitar Club Muslim Student Association (MSA)* Strings Board
Chess Club
Hebrew National Honor Society National Honor Society (NHS) Stevenson Styler Fashion Club
Chinese Club | Chinese Honor
(HNHS) Student Council (StuCo)
Society National Honor Society of Dance Arts
Hindu Student Association* (NHSDA) Students Helping Soldiers (S*H*S)
Choreography Club
History Bowl/Bee Nothing but Treble Table Tennis | Advanced Table Tennis
Class Board (Freshman, Sophomore,
Junior, Senior) History Fair Club Operation Snowball (OS) Taiwanese Cultural Club
Club Israel (Hebrew Club) IM Badminton Patriot Wellness Center TEAMS/ACES
Color Guard + Winter Guard IM Basketball League (Boys, Girls) Peer Helpers The WIT + The Sole
Computer Science Club IM Billiards Peer Tutors Theatre Productions
Concert Jazz IM Climbing Club Photography Studio Transfer Student Group-ADD
Criminology Club IM Cricket Club (Co-Ed) Physics Club Tri-M Music Honor Society
Cultural Cuisine Club IM Flag Football League (Boys, Girls) Polish Club Turkish Club
Debate IM Futsal Polish Honor Society VEX Robotics Club
Diversity Council | World’s Fair IM Gaga Political Action Club (PAC) Video Game Club (VGC)
(Divco) IM Girls Who Lift Polyphonics Write Club
DJ Club IM Horseback Riding Club Poster Design Club Zoology Club
Earth Science Club IM Open Gym Print Media Club Zumba Club
Eastern European Club IM Pickleball Project Pen Pal
Entrepreneurship Club IM Ski + Snowboard Club (Co-Ed) Psychology Club *Not a Stevenson-sponsored club
eSports IM Spikeball Repertory Dance Company
CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES AND CLUBS 13

--- Page 16 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT APPLIED ARTS ONLINE:
APPLIED ARTS DIVISION www.d125.org/academics/applied-arts
JACQUELINE KING, DIRECTOR | JKING@D125.ORG | 847-415-4151
Business Education Driver Education
Family and Consumer Sciences Technology Campus
The Applied Arts Division offers a program of electives that develop individual interests while facilitating
authentic learning experiences by linking the curricula to the real world. Each course teaches students to apply
content knowledge in a project-based environment. The Family and Consumer Sciences, Technology Campus,
Business and Driver Education teams provide learning opportunities that foster academic achievement, career
exploration, creativity and problem-solving skills for all students. The unique characteristics of each of these
academic teams provide students with a wide variety of course selections that integrate the diverse curricula
of Stevenson into activities they can use in their daily lives and future careers.
Applied Arts Courses Required for Graduation:
■ Business Education: Personal Finance meets a graduation requirement.
■ The classroom phase of Driver Education is a graduation requirement.
Elective courses in this division may be eligible for the GPA waiver option.
14 APPLIED ARTS

--- Page 17 ---
BUSINESS EDUCATION COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Introduction to Business Applications
Business and Technology 1
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
BUS171 or BUS172 BUS131 or BUS132
Business Applications
and Technology 2
Semester 2 Course Only
BUS142
Marketing Entrepreneurship Accounting 1
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course Semester 1 Course Only
BUS281 or BUS282 BUS231 or BUS232 BUS251
Accounting 2
Semester 2 Course Only
BUS252
Introduction to
Marketing Business Law Personal Finance Advanced Accounting
Business
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course Semester 1 Course Only
One-Semester Course
BUS281 or BUS282 BUS371 or BUS372 BUS301 or BUS302 BUS351
BUS171 or BUS172
Entrepreneurial Personal Finance Investment
Tactics (Online Option) Management
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
BUS411 or BUS412 BUS3Q1or BUS3Q2 BUS361 or BUS362
Business Applications
Advanced Accounting
and Technology 2
Semester 1 Course Only
Semester 2 Course Only
BUS351
BUS142
APPLIED ARTS–BUSINESS EDUCATION 15

--- Page 18 ---
BUSINESS EDUCATION BUSINESS APPLICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
BUS142–Semester 2 only
IN EVERY FACET OF SOCIETY, BUSINESS PLAYS A VITAL
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
ROLE. THEREFORE, A THOROUGH BUSINESS EDUCATION Prerequisite: Business Applications and Technology 1
Credit: College prep
CAN PROVIDE A SOLID FOUNDATION FOR A SUCCESSFUL,
Business Applications and Technology 2 encourages
PROFESSIONAL LIFE. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL PROVIDES
students to develop the technology and problem-solving
THE SKILLS NECESSARY FOR STUDENTS TO BECOME skills essential in today’s workforce. Students will be tasked
TOMORROW’S BUSINESS LEADERS. with finding solutions to common business problems, while
being encouraged to consider multiple perspectives. Students
will work to incorporate technology into their business
INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS practices to help them become more efficient and organized.
GPA WAIVER OPTION
BUS171–Semester 1 BUS172–Semester 2
MARKETING
Open to: 9-10 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep GPA WAIVER OPTION
BUS281–Semester 1 BUS282–Semester 2
Introduction to Business provides students with a
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
foundational understanding of the business world. This
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
course explores key topics including marketing, accounting,
Students will learn how companies develop and market their
international business and entrepreneurship, giving students
products and services. Current trends in the entertainment,
insight into how businesses operate locally and globally.
apparel, sports and food industries will be explored and
Through real-world examples and hands-on projects, students
applied during class activities. Students will interact with
will develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills
members of the school and local community to design
essential for future success in business. Whether planning to
products, advertisements and sales promotions for their
start a business or pursue a business career, students will gain
different target markets. They will learn personal selling
valuable knowledge to build their path forward.
strategies and visual merchandising techniques and get a
chance to practice them in authentic projects.
BUSINESS APPLICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY 1
GPA WAIVER OPTION ENTREPRENEURSHIP
BUS131–Semester 1 BUS132–Semester 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
BUS231–Semester 1 BUS232–Semester 2
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
To live, learn and work successfully in an increasingly
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
complex and information-rich society, students must be
Entrepreneurship will provide students with a working
able to use technology effectively. Business Applications and
background on the skills and knowledge necessary to own
Technology 1 is a course designed to teach students how to
and operate a small business. Students will examine the
use a variety of software programs and multimedia platforms
environment of small business ownership, the procedures
as they create a business concept. Students will strengthen
and skills necessary to open a small business and the policies
their knowledge of both business operations and technology
and practices of a successful small business operation.
usage in the workplace as they develop communications,
Entrepreneurship will emphasize a hands-on approach
marketing materials, financial proposals and presentations
to small business ownership.
for their proposed business.
16 APPLIED ARTS–BUSINESS EDUCATION

--- Page 19 ---
ENTREPRENEURIAL TACTICS ACCOUNTING 2
BUS411–Semester 1 BUS412–Semester 2 ARTICULATED CREDIT WITH COLLEGE OF LAKE COUNTY
Open to: 11-12 One Semester BUS252–Semester 2 Only
Prerequisite: Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
One course required from: and One course required from: Prerequisite: Accounting 1 credit: honors
■ Introduction to Business ■ Investment Management This is the second semester of a two-semester sequence
■ Business Law ■ Accounting 1 in the study of accounting. It is strongly recommended
■ Marketing ■ Accounting 2 Honors that this semester be taken immediately following
■ Entrepreneurship ■ Advanced Accounting Honors Accounting 1. Specialized journal systems, uncollected
accounts, depreciation, inventory controls, payroll, taxes and
Credit: Accelerated
financial statement analysis are emphasized with regard to
Entrepreneurial Tactics is a capstone course that ties together
a corporation. Students also have the opportunity to attend
all the curricular fundamentals from the Business Education
regional, state and national accounting competitions.
curriculum. This course models the research and concepts of
a capstone course at many university business schools. In this
ADVANCED ACCOUNTING
project-based course, students work within teams to create
a business plan that guides them in developing a business BUS351–Semester 1 Only
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
of their choice. Students will learn to work with and have
Prerequisite: Accounting 2 credit: honors
first-hand collaboration with top business professionals from
This one-semester course serves as a capstone to the
the community. These CFOs, CEOs and other top executives
advanced study of accounting. A “managerial approach”
will visit, present and mentor the students in incorporating all
emphasizing the internal data used to make decisions
the fundamentals of creating a business idea, marketing the
and control revenues, costs and expenses is explored and
product and preparing the finances of their business plan.
developed. Acquiring capital, cash flows and principles of
cost accounting are other areas of study. Accounting
ACCOUNTING 1
simulations and software applications are also used within
GPA WAIVER OPTION the course. Students learn to work both independently and
BUS251–Semester 1 Only
as a “management team” solving business accounting
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
problems. Students also have the opportunity to attend
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
regional, state and national accounting competitions.
This is the first semester of a two-semester sequence in
the study of accounting. It is strongly recommended that
both semesters of accounting be taken in the same year.
BUSINESS LAW
Accounting is currently the most in-demand college major. GPA WAIVER OPTION
Basic principles and practices of double entry accounting BUS371–Semester 1 BUS372–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
are developed with an emphasis on the financial records of
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
sole proprietorships and partnerships. Daily transactions
This course is designed to satisfy the curiosity of students
and financial statement analysis are included. Students also
who are interested in learning about the law as it relates
have the opportunity to attend regional, state and national
to various aspects of business. Students will gain a greater
accounting competitions.
understanding of their legal rights and responsibilities as
an individual, employee, manager and business owner.
General legal topics discussed include contracts, property,
employment rules and regulations, business organization,
finance, as well as technology, environment, entertainment
and sports law. Students will participate in daily discussions
about current legal events, review “real world” cases and
verdicts and participate in lively arguments and debates.
In addition, guest speakers, collaborative team projects
and small group activities allow for students to work together
developing a greater understanding of the law to receive
a more authentic learning experience.
APPLIED ARTS–BUSINESS EDUCATION 17

--- Page 20 ---
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PERSONAL FINANCE—ONLINE
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION (IF NOT TAKEN FOR GRADUATION REQUIREMENT)
BUS361–Semester 1 BUS362–Semester 2 BUS3Q1–Semester 1 BUS3Q2–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 One Semester Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Investment Management is designed to help students create Personal Finance will teach students how to manage finances
a well-rounded investment plan to meet their financial goals. and achieve their goals by utilizing sound decision-making.
Students will learn techniques used in corporate finance This student-centered course allows individuals to explore
and analyze various financial securities like stocks, futures and learn about important facets of their financial life. Specific
and options. They will explore the issues faced by today’s course topics relate to housing, transportation, wellness,
corporate financial managers and brokers through the use recreation, leisure, saving and investing. Students will gain
of a sophisticated, hands-on investment simulation. This knowledge and skills by investigating and responding to
course is designed for students who are planning careers in problems and challenges facing all consumers.
brokerage, investment and other financial fields.
The curricular requirements for this course are identical to the
traditional Personal Finance course. Instructional activities are
PERSONAL FINANCE adjusted for an online instructional setting. There will be no
GPA WAIVER OPTION (IF NOT TAKEN FOR GRADUATION REQUIREMENT) physical class meeting period or time, though some activities
BUS301–Semester 1 BUS302–Semester 2 will be available to all enrolled students in-person during the
Open to: 11-12 One Semester school day.
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Students will be expected to engage in class activities,
Personal Finance will teach students how to manage finances
projects, discussions and peer feedback frequently within
and achieve their goals by utilizing sound decision-making.
each school week. Assignments will have specific due dates
This student-centered course allows individuals to explore
and students will receive individualized feedback from their
and learn about important facets of their financial life. Specific
teacher. Daily in-person office hours will be available for all
course topics relate to housing, transportation, wellness,
students enrolled in the course. In-person remediation may
recreation, leisure, saving and investing. Students will gain
be required as needed on an individual student basis with
knowledge and skills by investigating and responding to
their teacher. Successful completion of this course fulfills the
problems and challenges facing all consumers. Successful
Economics/Personal Finance graduation requirement.
completion of this course fulfills the Economics/Personal
Finance graduation requirement.
18 APPLIED ARTS–BUSINESS EDUCATION

--- Page 21 ---
DRIVER EDUCATION
DRIVER EDUCATION Students may request enrollment in the course through their
D/E231–Semester 1 D/E232–Semester 2 counselor during course selection. However, enrollment is
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester based on age. Upon completion of course selection, exact
Prerequisite: AN INSTRUCTION PERMIT ISSUED BY THE SECRETARY birth dates will be confirmed. Students who are oldest will be
OF STATE’S OFFICE THROUGH DRIVER EDUCATION, PARENTAL CONSENT,
VERIFICATION OF AGE (ENROLLMENT IS BASED ON CHRONOLOGICAL AGE placed in Driver Education first. If the course is full, students
and GRADE LEVEL) AND ACCUMULATION OF AT LEAST EIGHT CREDITS IN will be notified via their counselor if a seat becomes available.
THE PREVIOUS TWO SEMESTERS. Students in the ELD program must
Students will receive an email notification in birth date order.
be enrolled in ELD 2 or higher to register for Driver Education.
Credit: College prep
Other requirements:
This course is normally taken during one semester of ■ Students must be 15 years old to obtain an Illinois permit.
sophomore or junior year. Students are enrolled in this
■ Students must hold an Illinois permit for nine months
course based on chronological age. For the 2026-27 school
before receiving a license.
year, students may request enrollment in the course for
first semester if they were born on or before Nov. 1, 2010 ■ Students must be enrolled in a Driver Education course
and for second semester if they were born on or before to obtain an Illinois permit.
March 1, 2011. Students must take and pass both the
■ Freshmen (regardless of age) are ineligible to take
classroom phase and the behind-the-wheel phase of Driver
Driver Education until the summer between freshman
Education if they wish to receive a license prior to their
and sophomore year.
18th birthday. Passing the classroom phase of the
■ A Driver Education teacher will contact students prior
course is required for graduation.
to the start of the Driver Education class to begin the
The course is a two-phase program consisting of classroom
permit process.
and behind-the-wheel instruction. The course prepares
■ If a student drops Driver Education, their permit will
students for safe motor vehicle operation in a suburban
be canceled.
driving environment. Among the topics taught in this course
are the rules of the road, defensive driving, natural laws and ■ If a student chooses to select the classroom only
their effects on vehicle control, driver responsibility and option, they will not be able to complete the
impaired and distracted driving. Students must also meet all behind-the-wheel phase at a later time.
the essential course requirements as mandated by the Illinois
Driver Education fees: $400 and an additional $20 check to
State Board of Education and the Secretary of State’s Office.
the Secretary of State.
This includes 50 hours of at-home practice, done concurrently
Parents/Guardians will be informed if their student has been
while taking the class. The grades earned in this course are
enrolled in Driver Education by March 8.
not included in the student’s grade point average.
APPLIED ARTS–DRIVER EDUCATION 19

--- Page 22 ---
FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Food and Human Growth and Clothing and
Nutrition Development Design 1
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
FCS111 or FCS112 FCS211 or FCS212 FCS251 or FCS252
Clothing and
Design 2
One-Semester Course
FCS291 or FCS292
Teaching Young Business of
Interior Design Food Preparation Life by Design
Children 1 Fashion and Design
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
FCS231 or FCS232 FCS221 or FCS222 FCS411 or FCS412
FCS311 or FCS312 FCS241 or FCS242
Teaching Young
Gourmet Foods
Children 2
One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course
FCS321 or FCS322
FCS331 or FCS332
20 APPLIED ARTS–FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES

--- Tables on Page 22 ---
Table 1:
20 APPLIED ARTS–FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES | 

--- Page 23 ---
FAMILY AND CLOTHING AND DESIGN 2
CONSUMER SCIENCES DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH HARPER COLLEGE
GPA WAIVER OPTION HONORS OPTION
FCS291–Semester 1 FCS292–Semester 2
THE FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES DEPARTMENT Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Clothing and Design 1 credit: College prep
OFFERS A SERIES OF COURSES THAT STRIVE TO CREATE
Clothing and Design 2 is a continuation of the Clothing and
LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS THAT ARE SUPPORTIVE,
Design 1 course curriculum. Advanced clothing construction
CULTURALLY RESPONSIVE AND FOCUSED ON BUILDING skills and original projects are a part of the course. Students
interested in pattern manipulation and creation of their own
RELATIONSHIPS AND COMMUNITY. TEACHER TEAMS DESIGN
patterns are provided the opportunity to use dress forms and
CURRICULUM THAT REINFORCES CONNECTIONS TO A
fabric to create original designs. Projects include tote bag and
VARIETY OF ACADEMIC SUBJECTS, INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCES three projects of student choice. Clothing and Design 2 can be
AND GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES. TECHNOLOGY IS IMPLEMENTED taken for more than one semester with an honors level and
dual college credit option with Harper College. After taking
TO STAY CONSISTENT WITH TEACHING, LEARNING, CURRENT
Clothing and Design 2 for three semesters, an Independent
EVENTS AND TRENDS. A STRONG FOCUS IS PLACED ON Study option is available.
PROMOTING POSITIVE SOCIAL, EMOTIONAL, COGNITIVE AND
INTERIOR DESIGN
PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT THROUGH HEALTHY, SUSTAINABLE
GPA WAIVER OPTION
WELLNESS PRACTICES. THROUGH THESE COURSES,
FCS231–Semester 1 FCS232–Semester 2
STUDENTS DEVELOP SKILLS THAT ENHANCE THEIR LIVES Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
TODAY AND IN THE FUTURE.
Interior Design is a project-based course where design is
explored as it relates to housing and commercial interiors. It
CLOTHING AND DESIGN 1 integrates the application of design principles with the living
GPA WAIVER OPTION environment, environmentally-friendly design, color and the
FCS251–Semester 1 FCS252–Semester 2 efficient use of design in the context of individual and family
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester lifestyles. Design projects include personal bedroom redesign,
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
kitchen design, commercial design of a cafe, retail space or
Clothing and Design 1 is a lab-based course where students hotel lobby and a vacation home remodel. Emphasis is on
will learn fashion construction techniques, pattern and fabric using available resources effectively to meet individual and
selection and fashion presentation skills. Students will apply housing needs.
these techniques to their personal apparel and accessories.
Projects include drawstring bag, sweatshirt and a project of
BUSINESS OF FASHION AND DESIGN
student choice. Students who have sewing experience will
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH HARPER COLLEGE
have the opportunity to expand and improve their clothing
GPA WAIVER OPTION HONORS OPTION
construction skills.
FCS241–Semester 1 FCS242–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Business of Fashion and Design is a project-based course
which focuses on the business side of the fashion industry,
fashion design and the merchandising of fashion-related
products. Topics include an overview of the fashion industry,
product development, the evolution, trends and movement
of the fashion cycle, visual merchandising, fashion promotion,
fashion and accessory design. Students interested in learning
more about the fashion industry should also consider taking
the Clothing and Design courses. Business of Fashion and
Design can be taken as a dual college credit course through
Harper College and honors credit option is available.
APPLIED ARTS–FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES 21

--- Page 24 ---
FOOD AND NUTRITION GOURMET FOODS
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS111–Semester 1 FCS112–Semester 2 FCS321–Semester 1 FCS322–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: Food Preparation credit: College prep
Food and Nutrition is a lab-based course where students Gourmet Foods is a lab-based course where students
gain the basic principles of food preparation in its relationship develop advanced food preparation skills in baking and
to nutrition and wellness. The course is centered on healthy cooking while also exploring U.S. regional cuisine and
food and lifestyle choices to engage student awareness of gaining global perspectives of international cuisine. Students
personal food choices, physical activity, dietary needs and compete in culinary competitions, examine the culinary
engagement of athletic and academic performance. Students industry, hospitality, current food trends and our food supply
apply course content to analyze nutritional choices for while investigating major influences and controversies
themselves and others. associated with producing and distributing food. Students
focus on plating food in an aesthetically pleasing way,
FOOD PREPARATION while considering flavor pairing and the development of
innovative recipes.
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS221–Semester 1 FCS222–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester LIFE BY DESIGN
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Food Preparation is a lab-based course where students FCS411–Semester 1 FCS412–Semester 2
enhance their culinary skills in a hands-on environment. Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Students learn culinary techniques, making a wide variety of Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
recipes that align with course skills. In this course, students In Life by Design, students explore a variety of topics designed
will gain an understanding of food science principles in order to help them meet the challenges of life. Curriculum topics
to adapt recipes, sharpen culinary techniques and create work to enhance the social and emotional development of
culturally diverse recipes. Students will also tackle real life young adults. Students gain an enhanced understanding of
skills such as; budgeting, safety and sanitation, dietary needs, self, increase awareness of others, learn to develop healthy
environmentally conscious methods of handling, storing and relationships and heighten responsible decision-making skills.
preparing food all while maintaining responsible lab usage Students improve communication skills, reduce stress, build
and team collaboration. positive relationships with others, gain independence, express
emotions, set goals, improve time management and make
decisions based on personal values. Live a life by design,
not a life by default.
HUMAN GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS211–Semester 1 FCS212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Human Growth and Development explores the world of the
developing individual. Students will examine the physical,
intellectual, social, emotional and moral development of
humans from prenatal development through adolescence.
This course will investigate the psychological concepts
that apply to everyday life, while exploring the dynamic
interactions between individuals and the diverse contexts
that shape our growth and development. This course is a
prerequisite for the course Teaching Young Children 1.
22 APPLIED ARTS–FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES

--- Page 25 ---
TEACHING YOUNG CHILDREN 1
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS311–Semester 1 FCS312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Human Growth and Development
Credit: College prep
Teaching Young Children 1 offers students the opportunity
to enhance their understanding of child development
while interacting with the children in the Little Patriots Lab
School. Students will focus on creating and implementing
developmentally appropriate lessons, interacting positively
with children and observing children’s development. This
course provides a valuable opportunity for students to begin
their exploration of career fields that work directly with
children and families.
TEACHING YOUNG CHILDREN 2
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH COLLEGE OF LAKE COUNTY
GPA WAIVER OPTION HONORS OPTION
FCS331–Semester 1 FCS332–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Teaching Young Children 1
Credit: College prep
Teaching Young Children 2 offers students the opportunity
to further their understanding of early childhood while
interacting with the children in the Little Patriots Lab School.
Students will prepare and teach lessons while observing
and assessing individual children’s developmental progress.
This course provides a valuable opportunity for students to
continue their exploration of education or career fields that
work directly with children and families. Teaching Young
Children 2 can be taken more than one semester with a dual
college credit and honors credit option available.
APPLIED ARTS–FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES 23

--- Page 26 ---
LAKE COUNTY HIGH SCHOOLS COMMUNICATION PROGRAMS
TECHNOLOGY CAMPUS Game Programming and Virtualization VOC171/172
Cybersecurity VOC191/192
The Lake County Tech Campus, located at the College of
Computer Support Services VOC071/072
Lake County’s Grayslake campus, offers students access
to state-of-the-art equipment and hands-on learning Multimedia Design 1 VOC671/672
experiences. Students can earn both high school and college Multimedia Design 2 VOC691/692
credit in many programs, preparing them for careers in fields
such as cybersecurity, certified nursing assisting, construction
MANUFACTURING/INDUSTRIAL PROGRAMS
skills and more. Known as one of the top career and technical
education facilities in the Midwest, the Tech Campus provides Construction Skills and Management 1 VOC511/512
an engaging, personalized learning environment that fosters
Construction Skills and Management 2 VOC531/532
skill development, academic growth and professionalism.
Welding and Fabrication 1 VOC871/872
Through its partnership with the College of Lake County,
students can earn college credit at no cost, giving them a head Welding and Fabrication 2 VOC891/892
start on their future careers.
HUMAN SERVICES PROGRAMS
Stevenson High School provides daily transportation to and
from the Lake County Technology Campus. The bus for the
Certified Nurse Assisting VOC291/292
third session departs at 12:30 p.m. Most students return to Prerequisite: Must be 16 years old
Stevenson around 3:15 p.m. However, students enrolled in
Cosmetology 1 VOC591/592
Cosmetology return to Stevenson at approximately 5 p.m.
Cosmetology 2 VOC611/612
A full program description and the most up-to-date course
offerings are available online at: www.techcampus.org. This Criminal Justice VOC111/112
site provides detailed information about the courses offered Law Enforcement and CSI VOC121/122
at the Technology Campus; however, please note that not all
Culinary Arts 1 VOC951/952
listed courses are available to Stevenson students.
Culinary Arts 2 VOC971/972
All courses must be taken in both the first and second
semesters. Each course is awarded three credits per Early Education and Teaching 1 VOC911/912
semester, except for Cosmetology, which awards four credits Early Education and Teaching 2 VOC931/932
per semester. Each course offers either articulated or dual
Emergency Medical Services VOC311/312
credit in partnership with the College of Lake County.
Seniors only
Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification. All courses are
Fire Fighting VOC221/222
classified as college prep.
Medical Assisting VOC321/322
Fees: Some courses may require individual lab fees. For more
Principles of Biomedical Science VOC711/712
information, please contact your counselor or the Director of
Applied Arts.
TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS
Automotive Collision Repair 1 VOC431/432
Automotive Collision Repair 2 VOC451/452
Automotive Service 1 VOC471/472
Automotive Service 2 VOC491/492
24 APPLIED ARTS—TECHNOLOGY CAMPUS

--- Page 27 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT COMMUNICATION ARTS ONLINE:
COMMUNICATION ARTS DIVISION www.d125.org/academics/communication-arts
KIMBERLY MUSOLF | KMUSOLF@D125.ORG | 847-415-4326
The Communication Arts Department includes the academic areas of English, speech, literacy
and journalism. It offers courses on three levels: college preparatory, accelerated and AP/honors.
It is the department’s goal to assist students in becoming critical and analytical readers, logical
and insightful thinkers and skilled users of written, visual and oral communication.
Communication Arts Courses Required for Graduation
Students are required to take four years/eight credits of English classes in order to fulfill
the graduation requirements. Students should plan to take at least one English credit per
semester unless they plan to graduate early.
Semester-Long Electives for Seniors
Semester electives taken before senior year are considered elective credits. Seniors should plan
to take one English credit each semester via electives or year-long courses unless they plan to
graduate early and have taken English elective credits earlier.
COMMUNICATION ARTS 25

--- Page 28 ---
COMMUNICATION ARTS COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
English 9: Belonging English 9: Threads English 9: Mirrors English 9: Reimagining
and Becoming* of Loyalty* and Shadows* the Future*
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
ENG141/ENG142 ENG151/ENG152 ENG161/ENG162 ENG171/ENG172
Sophomore English
Full-Year Course
ENG211/ENG212
or
ENG231/ENG232
Junior English AP English Language American Studies
Full-Year Course and Composition (AP English Language
ENG311/ENG312 Full-Year Course and Composition and
or ENG371/ENG372 AP U.S. History)
ENG381/ENG382 Full-Year Course
ENG341/ENG342
Topics in
Creative Writing World Literature Writing for College
Composition:
One-Semester Course Full-Year Course One-Semester Course
Media Analysis
ENG501 or ENG502 ENG431/ENG432 ENG541 or ENG542
Semester 1 Course Only
ENG691
Creative Writing AP Literature and Topics in Political Thought
Seminar Composition Composition: and Its Literature
Semester 2 Course Only Full-Year Course Film Genres One-Semester Course
ENG522 ENG451/ENG452 Semester 2 Course Only ENG601 or ENG602
ENG722
Mythology and
Public Speaking
Folklore
One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course
ENG761 or ENG762
ENG681 or ENG682
Journalism ELECTIVES
Advanced Publication Design Broadcast
Journalistic Writing
Journalistic Writing and Production Journalism
One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course Full-Year Course One-Semester Course
JRN901 or JRN902
JRN921 or JRN922 JRN951/JRN952 JRN911 or JRN912
*Each of the four freshman classes is equal in rigor and support.
26 COMMUNICATION ARTS

--- Page 29 ---
ENGLISH 9: BELONGING AND BECOMING: ENGLISH 9: MIRRORS AND SHADOWS:
STORIES, CULTURE AND POSSIBILITY REFLECTION, PERCEPTION AND CHOICES
ENG141–Semester 1 ENG142–Semester 2 ENG161–Semester 1 ENG162–Semester 2
Open TO: 9 Full Year Open TO: 9 Full Year
Prerequisite: None Prerequisite: None
Credit: COLLEGE PREP Credit: COLLEGE PREP
Explore how our journey, family and community shape Explore what makes us human, how we understand
where our stories begin and the paths we might take. ourselves and the struggles we carry within. Students
Students develop proficiencies in the areas of reading, develop proficiencies in the areas of reading, literary
literary analysis, writing, grammar and usage, oral analysis, writing, grammar and usage, oral communication
communication and research. Students explore the and research. Students explore the overarching themes of the
overarching themes of the course through short stories, course through short stories, essays, articles, novels, poetry,
essays, articles, novels, poetry, drama and other texts. drama and other texts. Through their reading and inquiry,
Through their reading and inquiry, students are introduced students are introduced to various stylistic techniques that
to various stylistic techniques that help them learn strategies help them learn strategies to improve their reading, writing,
to improve their reading, writing, listening and speaking listening and speaking skills. With a focus on authentic
skills. With a focus on authentic modes, students engage in modes, students engage in the process of writing in multiple
the process of writing in multiple formats to enhance student formats to enhance student learning in all areas of literacy
learning in all areas of literacy development. Each of the four development. Each of the four options for freshman English
options for freshman English is equal in rigor and support. is equal in rigor and support.
ENGLISH 9: THREADS OF LOYALTY: RELATIONSHIPS, ENGLISH 9: REIMAGINING THE FUTURE:
COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL DYNAMICS INNOVATION, IDENTITY AND OUR WORLD
ENG151–Semester 1 ENG152–Semester 2 ENG171–Semester 1 ENG172–Semester 2
Open TO: 9 Full Year Open TO: 9 Full Year
Prerequisite: None Prerequisite: None
Credit: COLLEGE PREP Credit: COLLEGE PREP
Analyze how loyalty, trust, courage and community build Explore how technology and imagination influence our
(or break) society, with connections to modern teen life. decisions as we define ourselves, our world, and our future.
Students develop proficiencies in the areas of reading, Students develop proficiencies in the areas of reading, literary
literary analysis, writing, grammar and usage, oral analysis, writing, grammar and usage, oral communication
communication and research. Students explore the and research. Students explore the overarching themes of the
overarching themes of the course through short stories, course through short stories, essays, articles, novels, poetry,
essays, articles, novels, poetry, drama and other texts. drama and other texts. Through their reading and inquiry,
Through their reading and inquiry, students are introduced students are introduced to various stylistic techniques that
to various stylistic techniques that help them learn strategies help them learn strategies to improve their reading, writing,
to improve their reading, writing, listening and speaking listening and speaking skills. With a focus on authentic
skills. With a focus on authentic modes, students engage in modes, students engage in the process of writing in multiple
the process of writing in multiple formats to enhance student formats to enhance student learning in all areas of literacy
learning in all areas of literacy development. Each of the four development. Each of the four options for freshman English
options for freshman English is equal in rigor and support. is equal in rigor and support.
COMMUNICATION ARTS 27

--- Page 30 ---
SOPHOMORE ENGLISH AP ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMPOSITION
ENG211–Semester 1 ENG212–Semester 2 ENG371–Semester 1 ENG372–Semester 2
Open to: 10 Full Year Open to: 11 Full Year
Prerequisite: None Credit: College prep Prerequisite: none credit: honors
This is a college-level course, one that adheres to the
ENG231–Semester 1 ENG232–Semester 2
Open to: 10 Full Year objectives articulated by the College Board, and students may
Prerequisite: None Credit: Accelerated obtain college credit by taking the AP English Language and
In each of these skills-based courses, students continue Composition exam, a natural culmination of the year-long
to develop their proficiencies in reading, writing, literary study of language. Students are guided to proficiency in the
analysis, grammar and usage, oral communication and areas of reading, literary analysis, argumentation, writing,
research. Students explore the overarching theme— grammar and usage, oral communication and research. The
the individual’s interaction and negotiation with society— course emphasizes a variety of non-fiction texts as a means
through the study of short stories, short essays and articles, of critical analysis of language and rhetoric. This writing
novels, poetry and drama. Through their exposure to a variety intensive course focuses on literary analysis, rhetorical
of texts, students build upon the various stylistic techniques analysis, synthesis and argumentation and is more rigorous
introduced in Freshman English as a means of enhancing than the accelerated level in terms of quantity and complexity
their literacy skills. A focus on persuasion introduces students of the writing assignments. The writing assignments, ranging
to the study of rhetorical analysis. This writing intensive from process essays to a research paper, require students
course builds upon the argumentation skills introduced in to assume an increasing degree of independence as the
Freshman English while reinforcing a structured process year progresses. In addition, students write numerous short
approach to writing. Sophomore English (College Prep) serves papers and in-class essays each semester. Students will be
students who will benefit from continued reinforcement of assessed regularly in the area of full-class and small-group
the foundational skills noted above, while Sophomore English discussions, as well as formal presentations. ACT and AP exam
(Accelerated) is best suited for students who are prepared for preparation are used to sharpen reading, editing and revising
a greater challenge. Both classes are outstanding preparation skills. Students also engage in independent and intensive
for college. vocabulary study throughout the year. Students who enroll in
this course will be prepared to take the AP English Language
and Composition exam in May.
JUNIOR ENGLISH
ENG311–Semester 1 ENG312–Semester 2
Open to: 11 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
ENG381–Semester 1 ENG382–Semester 2
Open to: 11 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: Accelerated
This skills-based course completes the department’s three-
year scope and sequence in the areas of reading, writing,
speaking and listening, grammar and usage and research.
Through their reading and writing, students deepen their
analysis of language and rhetoric. Building on the previous
focus on argumentation, students continue to develop their
writing through a structured process approach that is aligned
with college writing expectations. Additionally, students
utilize close reading in the areas of English language skills
and reading which serves as preparation for the ACT.
Discussion-based speaking and listening opportunities are
consistently present throughout both semesters.
Within each course, a reading intensive method guides
students to select texts to read both independently and
in book clubs, as well as full-class reading experiences.
Moments of student choice extend across reading and
writing experiences.
28 COMMUNICATION ARTS

--- Page 31 ---
AMERICAN STUDIES (AP ENGLISH LANGUAGE AP LITERATURE AND COMPOSITION
AND COMPOSITION AND AP U.S. HISTORY)
ENG451–Semester 1 ENG452–Semester 2
ENG341–Semester 1 ENG342–Semester 2 Open to: 12 Full Year
Open to: 11 Full Year Prerequisite: NONE credit: honors
Prerequisite: NONE Credit: honors
This course will provide students with a college-level
Students are scheduled for consecutive periods of history
literary experience that will foster readiness for the
and English, allowing for an integrated study of the two
AP English Literature and Composition exam. In compliance
disciplines, development of skills for informed citizenship
with College Board requirements, students will study works
and thematic movements in our country’s history and
from the 16th century to the present. During the course of
literature. This course fulfills the College Board’s objectives
the year, students are expected to continue to develop their
for both AP English Language and Composition and AP U.S.
knowledge of literary terms related to prose and poetry;
History, with attention to how a shared focus on both content
demonstrate how the parts and techniques of a literary work
and skills reinforces the development of the common and
contribute to the meaning of the work; actively participate in
separate course objectives, including preparation for both
high-level analytical discourse; and create cogent, sustained
AP exams. The AP U.S. History component focuses on the
and sophisticated expressions of analytical interpretation in
development of historical thinking skills (chronological
written form. Students should expect to write weekly, including
reasoning, comparing and contextualizing, crafting historical
response papers, in-class essays and process essays.
arguments using historical evidence and interpreting and
synthesizing historical narrative) and an understanding of
WORLD LITERATURE
content objectives and themes. The AP English Language
ENG431–Semester 1 ENG432–Semester 2
component features the study of primary source documents,
Open to: 12 Full Year
contemporary and historical nonfiction and fiction. Students
Prerequisite: None
read to deepen their analysis of rhetoric and to develop Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
their perspective of both history and contemporary society.
This full-year course leads students through a wide variety
Students write and orally present original arguments—
of literature from traditions around the globe. Students
both with and without sources. All forms of writing—analysis,
critically examine the literary themes and methods that reflect
argument, synthesis, creative prose—are influenced by
the diverse times and cultures that produced these texts.
students’ awareness of the interdisciplinary content.
Through multiple modes such as the novel, traditional origin
stories and poetry, students will explore questions about the
nature of humanity and of perspective. Students express and
develop their conclusions through multiple methods such as
presentations, papers, discussions and original research. The
course design includes choices for students to take the college
prep level or to choose texts and tasks of added complexity
within the course inquiry and study, which result in earning
an Accelerated credit.
COLLEGE PREP WITH ACCELERATED OPTION
The Accelerated Option is a way for any student to access challenges and learning opportunities in their classes. While all students in the class
engage with our excellent curriculum, there is a several-week open window of opportunity to step up to the additional challenge of accelerated (AC)
English rigor. Regardless of what level of course they initially intended to take during registration, students can opt into the accelerated level simply
by participating in the accelerated requirements of each assessment. When they have opted in and met the frequency requirements, they earn an
accelerated credit for the course.
Note: Students who are applying to college as they take this course simply report which level they intend to take on their applications.
This does not affect college admissions. This option is available only for the following English electives: World Literature, Creative Writing,
Creative Writing Seminar, Media Analysis and Film Genres.
COMMUNICATION ARTS 29

--- Page 32 ---
PUBLIC SPEAKING CREATIVE WRITING
ENG761–Semester 1 ENG762–Semester 2 ENG501–Semester 1 ENG502–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: NONE credit: College prep Prerequisite: None
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
This course is designed to provide experience and training in
public speaking so that students are equipped with the skills Students learn to express their thoughts through writing
essential for success in the business and academic worlds short stories, poems and plays. Class discussions analyze
of today and tomorrow. Students learn to tailor a message and implement different writing styles including, but not
to suit a particular audience, enhance the message through limited to, fiction, poetry and drama. The course format is a
technology, understand logic and reasoning, develop listening workshop that includes daily writing. Students will give and
skills, identify propaganda techniques and understand receive feedback and peer edit in small- and full-class groups.
the physical producers of voice to control and vary tone, Students are also required to read and annotate fiction. The
volume, pitch and rate. Students participate in workshop- reading will be assessed in a manner that engages students
oriented groups to develop the various skills listed above. in a process through which they become more aware of how
Students present approximately one speech per week and are their reading improves over time. All students participate in
responsible for constructive feedback of their peers’ speeches. a variety of approaches to literacy development and to apply
what they learn to the art of writing creatively.
POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE
CREATIVE WRITING SEMINAR
ENG601–Semester 1 ENG602–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester ENG522–Semester 2 Only
Prerequisite: U.S. History and ANY Junior English Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Credit: College prep Prerequisite: Creative Writing
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
This one-semester elective course, which can be taken as
an English credit or social studies credit, helps students Students will refine their skills in writing and analyzing stories,
develop skills in the areas of reading, literary analysis, writing, plays and poetry. Projects, readings and assignments will
oral communication and research in order to help them cover various genres that allow students to pursue individual
better be prepared for future education. Students explore interests. Class discussions focus on the analysis and
the overarching themes of the course—the individual’s consideration of different writing styles and genres including,
understanding of self and others, individualism v. collectivism but not limited to, fiction, poetry and drama. Students explore
in democracy, ethics and morals, political partisanship, race writing in greater depth than in the prerequisite course,
relations, diversity, income inequality, politics and media examining how various genres impact writing style and what
relations, civil liberties and many other important political it means to create voice in writing. The course format is a
issues—through short stories, essays, articles, novels, poetry, workshop that includes daily writing. Students will give and
drama and other intriguing texts. Through their reading receive feedback and peer edit in small and full class groups.
and inquiry, students are introduced to various stylistic Students are also required to read and annotate fiction. The
techniques that help them learn strategies to improve their reading will be assessed in a manner that engages students
reading comprehension, writing, listening and speaking in a process through which they become more aware of how
skills. Students write in multiple formats throughout the year, their reading improves over time. All students participate in a
including narrative and argumentative, which is a framework wide variety of approaches to literacy development and apply
for critical thinking. Authentic class discussion plays a vital what they learn to the art of writing creatively.
role in that students talk in class as a means of enhancing their
speaking and listening skills as a critical thinker. Students will
participate in a mock trial, reach outside of the community,
participate in class discussions and examine what it means
to develop a worldview and what it means to be a political
scientist.
30 COMMUNICATION ARTS

--- Page 33 ---
TOPICS IN COMPOSITION: MEDIA ANALYSIS MYTHOLOGY AND FOLKLORE
ENG691–Semester 1 Only ENG681–Semester 1 ENG682–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 One Semester Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
The study of myth, folklore and culture provides students
This one-semester composition course is designed to with a lens to study various texts: written, oral, performative,
lead students to a critical understanding of the media that ritualistic, etc. We will study a wide range of short texts
surround us. The course focuses on the analysis of three major from various cultures and eras, including contemporary
media industries—advertising, news and entertainment— studies. In addition, this class will develop analysis of texts
and the print and non-print messages created by these such as artifacts and field studies to foster intracultural and
industries. Students will be required to write weekly response intercultural understanding. This course welcomes students
papers, read college-level texts, view a variety of forms to investigate literature and local communities related to their
of media, participate in class discussions and complete identities. In this project-based course, reading and writing
analytical projects. assessments allow students to showcase some personal
interests.
TOPICS IN COMPOSITION: FILM GENRES
ENG722–Semester 2 only WRITING FOR COLLEGE
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
ENG541–Semester 1 ENG542–Semester 2
Prerequisite: None
Open to: 12 One Semester
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
This one-semester composition course is designed to lead
This class provides students the opportunity to develop their
students to an understanding of the art of film through the
writing through a variety of skills, including but not limited
world of film genre, including suspense, comedy, horror,
to argumentation, research and impromptu responses.
among others. Topics of composition include film techniques,
Structured in an inquiry format guided by essential questions,
film history, film analysis and elements of genre conventions.
students will read and critique several short texts in each
Students will be required to write weekly response papers,
unit (such as non-fiction, fiction, video/film and independent
view a variety of films, participate in class discussions and
research) and engage in frequent class discussions to support
complete four analytical projects.
writing as a process. Students will read and analyze selected
models of prose writing, and synthesize multiple authors’
ideas to support their thinking. Student progress is evaluated
throughout the semester in a manner that authorizes students
to take an active role in their learning. Note: This course is not
focused on college application essays.
COLLEGE PREP WITH ACCELERATED OPTION
The Accelerated Option is a way for any student to access challenges and learning opportunities in their classes. While all students in the class
engage with our excellent curriculum, there is a several-week open window of opportunity to step up to the additional challenge of accelerated (AC)
English rigor. Regardless of what level of course they initially intended to take during registration, students can opt into the accelerated level simply
by participating in the accelerated requirements of each assessment. When they have opted in and met the frequency requirements, they earn an
accelerated credit for the course.
Note: Students who are applying to college as they take this course simply report which level they intend to take on their applications.
This does not affect college admissions. This option is available only for the following English electives: World Literature, Creative Writing,
Creative Writing Seminar, Media Analysis and Film Genres.
COMMUNICATION ARTS 31

--- Page 34 ---
JOURNALISTIC WRITING BROADCAST JOURNALISM
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION
JRN901–Semester 1 JRN902–Semester 2 JRN911–Semester 1 JRN912–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester Elective Credit
Prerequisite: None Not an English graduation credit Prerequisite: None Not an English graduation credit
Credit: College prep Credit: College prep
This course includes interviewing students and adults, writing This one-semester course is designed to combine the
stories that could get published in the student newspaper or journalistic principles of coverage and writing with video
yearbook and solving problems that typically face reporters production. The course requires that students learn the
and editors. Designed to offer students background and techniques and tools to accurately, efficiently and ethically
practice in basic journalism concepts and skills, Journalistic communicate using video and audio in a variety of platforms
Writing units include news gathering/interviewing, news (studio desk, live at the scene, vlog, podcast, radio, game
writing, feature writing, copy editing, press law and opinion coverage, etc.). Students will write scripts, apply visual
writing. Oral and written communication skills, as well as messaging and research stories and topics, as well as critically
critical thinking and problem-solving skills, will be exercised. evaluate past broadcasts and film. Additionally, students will
produce video segments for different audiences and topics in
ADVANCED JOURNALISTIC WRITING a variety of roles.
GPA WAIVER OPTION
JRN921–Semester 1 JRN922–Semester 2 PUBLICATION DESIGN AND PRODUCTION
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Elective Credit
JRN951–Semester 1 JRN952–Semester 2
Not an English graduation credit
Open to: 10-11-12 FULL YEAR
Prerequisite: Journalistic Writing
Not an English graduation credit
Credit: College prep
Prerequisite: Advanced Journalistic Writing
Units in opinion writing (editorial, personal column, reviews), Credit: Accelerated
feature writing, sports writing and in-depth reporting, along Students do all the work necessary to produce the
with hands-on production of pages, prepare students for Statesman (newspaper and website). Staff positions include
positions in student publications. Students will build on the executive editors, copy editors, design editors, advertising
reporting and writing skills learned in Journalistic Writing. manager, section editors (news, opinions, sports, in-depth and
As in the prerequisite course, communication and problem- feature) and reporter. Staff members gather news, research
solving will be stressed. and write copy and help complete pages. Because this is a
student publication, all responsibilities—from the planning
of the content, to the design of an issue, to the processing of
photos and the completion of pages—are handled by students.
After-school work is necessary for these publications. This
course may be repeated for credit.
32 COMMUNICATION ARTS

--- Page 35 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT the Computer
Science, Engineering and Technology Division ONLINE:
www.d125.org/academics/academic-divisions/computer-
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING science-engineering-and-technology-legacy
AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET) DIVISION
JACQUELINE KING, DIRECTOR | JKING@D125.ORG | 847-415-4179
The Computer Science, Engineering and Technology Division (CSET) offers a robust program of electives in
the areas of computer science, engineering and technology. Within these project-based courses, students will
develop an innovative and problem-solving mindset while pursuing professional and personal endeavors. The
rich curricula connects students to the core content areas in a collaborative, lab-based environment using
state-of-the-art tools and software.
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET) 33

--- Page 36 ---
COMPUTER SCIENCE COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Computer
Programming 1
One-Semester Course
CSC161 or CSC162
Computer
Programming 2
One-Semester Course
CSC181 or CSC182
AP Computer AP Computer Mobile App
Science A Science Principles Development
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
CSC391/CSC392 CSC371/CSC372 CSC251/CSC252
Computer Science
Algorithms
Full-Year Course
CSC421/CSC422
3344 COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET)

--- Page 37 ---
COMPUTER SCIENCE COMPUTER PROGRAMMING 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
CSC181–Semester 1 CSC182–Semester 2
COMPUTER SCIENCE COURSES ARE DESIGNED TO
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
ENGAGE STUDENTS IN THE WORLD OF COMPUTER Prerequisite: Computer Programming 1 (CSC161/162) or Web
Development 2 (TEC281/282) or Principles of Engineering
PROGRAMMING, NO EXPERIENCE REQUIRED. THE HANDS-ON (TEC301/302), or AP Computer Science Principles (CSC371/372)
Credit: College prep
COMPUTER-BASED CURRICULA INTRODUCES STUDENTS
This one-semester course is intended for students who
TO PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES LIKE PYTHON AND JAVA,
possess some programming experience or who have
AS WELL AS PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES TO EXPLORE
successfully completed Computer Programming 1 (CSC161
HOW CODING CONNECTS TO THEIR OWN LIVES. ADVANCED or CSC162) and seek a deeper understanding of computer
programming concepts. The Java language continues to
PLACEMENT (AP) COURSE OPTIONS ARE AVAILABLE
enjoy worldwide popularity. Due to Java’s longevity, available
WITHIN THIS PROGRAM.
support for Java is extensive and many industries make use
of Java-based applications. Java developers continue to
be in high demand. Java is highly portable (as it can run on
COMPUTER PROGRAMMING 1
many computer platforms) and provides an easy-to-learn
GPA WAIVER OPTION
introduction to the world of object-oriented program design.
CSC161–Semester 1 CSC162–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester This course reviews foundational coding frameworks
Prerequisite: none Credit: College prep and concepts and introduces students to object-oriented
This one-semester course introduces students to the design using the Java programming language. Students will
foundations of computer programming using Python. explore and work with various data types, input and output
Python’s syntax is easy to read and write for those with limited commands, conditional statements, Boolean operators
experience with programming, making it an ideal language (and, or, not), looping structures, common algorithms
for those looking for an introduction to the field of computer and arrays. Successful completion of this one-semester
science. In addition, Python is widely used across a range of course prepares the student for Mobile App Development
industries such as business, web application development, (CSC251/252) and AP Computer Science A (CSC391/392).
project management, data analysis and machine learning.
Python is an excellent choice for anyone who wants to be
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A
prepared for the technical demands their career might
CSC391–Semester 1 CSC392–Semester 2
include.
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Computer Programming 2 (CSC181/182)
The course introduces students to the foundational ideas of
Credit: honors
computer programming and computational thinking with
This course introduces students to object-oriented
an emphasis on problem-solving. Students will learn both
programming methodology with an emphasis on problem
how to read and write computer programs for a variety of
solving and algorithm development. It is meant to be the
applications. Topics for this course include input and output
equivalent of a first-semester college course in Computer
commands, making decisions with conditional statements and
Science. Students will learn how to code more sophisticated
repeating a set of steps with looping structures. Successful
concepts in Java. The course emphasizes the design issues
completion of this one-semester course prepares the student
that make programs understandable, adaptable and reusable.
for Computer Programming 2 (CSC181/182) and Mobile App
It also includes the study of fundamental data structures,
Development (CSC251/252).
abstraction and recursion. Students who enroll in this course
will be prepared to take the AP Computer Science A exam in
May. Successful completion of this full-year course prepares
the student for Computer Science Algorithms (CSC421/422).
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET) 35

--- Page 38 ---
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES MOBILE APP DEVELOPMENT
CSC371–Semester 1 CSC372–Semester 2 GPA WAIVER OPTION
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year CSC251–Semester 1 CSC252–Semester 2
Prerequisite: ALGEBRA 1 credit: honors Open to: 9-10-11-12 ONE SEMESTER
AP Computer Science Principles is a college-level Prerequisite: Computer Programming 1 (CSC161/162), or Web
Development 2 (TEC281/282), or Principles of Engineering
computing course that introduces students to the breadth of (TEC301/302) or AP Computer Science Principles (CSC371/372)
the computer science field. Students learn to design/evaluate Credit: College prep
computing solutions and apply computer science to solve This full-year course introduces students to the world of
problems through algorithms and event-driven JavaScript app development for mobile devices (such as smartphones
program development. Students will discover the extensive and tablets). Students will work in a collaborative, lab-based
role of abstraction throughout computing and incorporate it environment that utilizes industry-standard processes and
into their programs. They will learn how digital information development strategies similar to those a professional app
and the internet work, as well as how encryption protects development company might employ. Each unit begins by
internet transactions. Students will program utilizing libraries introducing students to specific skills and ideas that will be
and data sets and learn the importance of data in modern used to modify and redesign existing mobile apps. Each unit
computing in terms of visualizations and machine learning. concludes with students applying the concepts learned to
They will connect computing to today’s world and explore its create an application on their own. Topics include: event-
real-world impact and implications in almost every area of driven programming strategies, app structure, algorithm
life. Students will find opportunities to be challenged and to design and user-interface design. Successful completion
discover the creativity within computing, regardless of their of this course provides students with a strong command
programming background. Students who enroll in this course of the fundamental strategies necessary to develop high
will be prepared to take the AP Computer Science Principles quality apps.
exam in May.
COMPUTER SCIENCE ALGORITHMS
CSC421–Semester 1 CSC422–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: AP Computer Science A (CSC391/CSC392)
CREDIT: Honors
This full-year course is intended for students who have
successfully completed AP Computer Science A (CSC391/392)
and are looking to deepen their understanding of computer
programming concepts. Algorithms are at the heart of every
computer program used in the tech industry today. In order
to create applications that run efficiently and correctly,
programmers must design and implement algorithms for
their programs. This makes the study of algorithms essential
for computer programming. The course will introduce
students to the fundamentals of designing algorithms, as
well as proving their correctness and analyzing their efficiency.
A variety of algorithm design techniques will be explored with
common problems such as searching and sorting. The design
and implementation of elementary data structures such as
linked lists, hash tables and binary search trees will be
covered as well.
36 COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET)

--- Page 39 ---
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Introduction to
Architectural Design
Engineering Design–
Full-Year Course
PLTW
Full-Year Course TEC141/TEC152
TEC151/TEC152
Principles of Electrical Computer Integrated Civil Engineering Advanced
Engineering–PLTW Engineering–PLTW Manufacturing–PLTW and Architecture– Architectural Design
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course PLTW Full-Year Course
TEC301/TEC302 TEC291/TEC292 TEC351/TEC352 Full-Year Course TEC241/TEC242
TEC261/TEC262
Engineering Design
and Development–
PLTW
Full-Year Course
TEC401/TEC402
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET) 37

--- Page 40 ---
ENGINEERING ADVANCED ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
GPA WAIVER OPTION
TEC241–Semester 1 TEC242–Semester 2
WHETHER STUDENTS ASPIRE TO DEVELOP A CAREER
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
IN FIELDS OF ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING, OR ARE Prerequisite: Civil Engineering and Architecture–PLTW or
Architectural Design
JUST LOOKING FOR A CREATIVE OUTLET TO DEVELOP
Credit: College prep
PROBLEM-SOLVING SKILLS, THE COURSES WITHIN THIS Advanced Architectural Design is recommended for students
PROGRAM ARE EXCELLENT ELECTIVE OPTIONS. ALL interested in pursuing a career in architecture and/or interior
design. Advanced Architectural Design is designed to prepare
COURSES ARE HANDS-ON, COLLABORATIVE AND UTILIZE
students for the wide variety of technical and computer
INDUSTRY STANDARDS SOFTWARE AND TOOLS. STUDENTS
software skills needed for higher education courses and
CAN CHOOSE COURSES FROM MULTIPLE PATHWAYS within the workforce. Students will use architectural software
and technology that is used by professional architects
INCLUDING: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, ELECTRICAL
including Autodesk Revit, Autodesk AutoCAD, SketchUp,
ENGINEERING, COMPUTER ENGINEERING, ARCHITECTURE
Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop and a laser printer.
AND ROBOTIC ENGINEERING. Students will use this software to aid them in designing
residential and commercial buildings and to create physical
laser-cut models of their designs. In addition, students learn
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
about documenting their projects, solving problems and
GPA WAIVER OPTION communicating their solutions to their classmates.
TEC141–Semester 1 TEC142–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
INTRODUCTION TO ENGINEERING DESIGN–PLTW
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Architectural Design is an introductory course for students GPA WAIVER OPTION
TEC151–Semester 1 TEC152–Semester 2
interested in exploring the world of architecture. Through
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
hands-on projects, students will learn key concepts in design,
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
planning and technical drawing. Using the same software as
Introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW is a full-year course
professional architects, Autodesk Revit, they’ll create floor
available to all students. In this course, students use 3D solid
plans, site layouts, elevations and renderings focused on
modeling design software to help them design solutions to
residential design. Along the way, students will also build skills
solve proposed problems. Students will then use high-tech
in physical model making, project documentation, creative
equipment including 3D printers, a laser engraver and CNC
problem-solving and presenting their ideas clearly to others.
router to produce their solutions. Students will learn how to
document their work and communicate solutions to peers
and members of the professional community. The major
focus of the Introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW course
is to expose students to the design process, research and
analysis, collaboration skills, communication methods, global
and human impacts, engineering standards and technical
documentation. Students may receive college credit and/or
advanced standing for successful completion of this course
and a cumulative exam.
38 COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET)

--- Page 41 ---
CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE–PLTW COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING–PLTW
TEC261–Semester 1 TEC262–Semester 2 TEC351–Semester 1 TEC352–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW OR Prerequisite: introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW
Engineering Design or Architectural Design OR Engineering Design
Credit: honors Credit: honors
Students will learn the art and science of planning, designing Computer Integrated Manufacturing is one of the
and constructing buildings. The major focus of this course specialization courses in the PLTW Engineering program.
is completing long-term projects that involve the design The course deepens the skills and knowledge of an
and development of residential and commercial structures. engineering student within the context of efficiently
Students use Autodesk Revit, a professional grade software, creating the products all around us. Students learn about
to design a small structure and a home to learn the basic manufacturing processes, product design, robotics and
construction systems such as wall, roof, foundation, water and automation. Students develop their knowledge and skills
electrical systems. Students design a commercial structure in of Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing to produce
the surrounding community following local building codes. products using a Computer Numerical Controlled (CNC) mill.
Within this project, students will also learn about additional Students apply the knowledge and skills gained in this course
topics such as commercial construction systems, sustainable as they collaborate to design, build and program factory
design, universal design and structural engineering. Students system models.
may receive college credit and/or advanced standing for
successful completion of this course and a cumulative exam. ENGINEERING DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT–PLTW
TEC401–Semester 1 TEC402–Semester 2
PRINCIPLES OF ENGINEERING–PLTW
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
TEC301–Semester 1 TEC302–Semester 2 Prerequisite: PLTW Digital Electronics or Electrical
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year engineering–PLTW, Principles of Engineering–PLTW,
Computer Integrated Manufacturing–PLTW or
Prerequisite: introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW
Civil Engineering and Architecture–PLTW
OR Engineering Design
Credit: honors
Credit: honors
In this capstone course of the engineering pathway, students
Principles of Engineering–PLTW is a survey course in which
take full ownership of the design process as they identify a
students will be introduced to several elements of engineering
real-world problem and develop a meaningful, innovative
including mechanisms, energy, statics, materials and
solution. Drawing on skills from previous engineering classes,
kinematics. Students in Principles of Engineering–PLTW will
students deepen their understanding of design thinking,
develop problem-solving skills and collaborate with others to
manufacturing techniques and patterns of innovation.
complete design challenges. Students will be using various
The course begins with a team-based mini-capstone that
engineering programs to research and evaluate designs,
introduces advanced tools and methods—including 3D
create code for robotics and develop virtual models of design
printing, laser cutting, CNC machining and traditional
solutions. Student projects will include: creating a bridge,
fabrication equipment like saws and drills. From there,
designing a robotic material sorter and programming and
students explore problem validation, conduct user-focused
building a projectile launcher. Students may receive college
research and pitch their own project ideas. Once approved,
credit and/or advanced standing for successful completion
students move from concept to prototype, applying iterative
of this course and a cumulative exam.
design and testing to refine their solutions. The experience
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING–PLTW culminates in the Engineering Design Fair, where students
present their work to peers and faculty. Projects must
TEC291–Semester 1 TEC292–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year focus on creating something that’s both approachable and
Prerequisite: Introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW impactful. Past capstones have included a child-proof knife
or Engineering Design
block to reduce kitchen injuries, mobility crutches designed
Credit: honors
for athletes and a smart recycling sorter that detects and
This Electrical Engineering (EE) course gives students the chance
separates overlooked plastics.
to explore the technology behind everyday electronics. Students
will learn the basics of how digital circuits work and dive into
topics like logic gates, integrated circuits and programmable
devices. They will also learn how to design your own circuits
using both hardware and software. Along the way, students will
build teamwork, communication and problem-solving skills
while learning how engineers document and share their ideas.
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET) 39

--- Page 42 ---
TECHNOLOGY
TODAY, STUDENTS NEED TO BE PROFICIENT WITH
TECHNOLOGY IN ALL ASPECTS OF THEIR PROFESSIONAL
AND PERSONAL LIVES. THE TECHNOLOGY COURSES
OFFERED WITHIN THIS PROGRAM ARE FOCUSED ON
TEACHING STUDENTS THE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS THEY
NEED TO ADAPT TO NEW TECHNOLOGY AS IT UNFOLDS.
STUDENTS CAN FIND THEIR PASSION IN ONE OF THESE
FOUR AREAS: PRINT MEDIA, WEB DEVELOPMENT, GAME
DEVELOPMENT AND VIDEO PRODUCTION.
TECHNOLOGY COURSES
Motion Graphics Video Editing Web Game
Print Media 1
and Visual Effects and Production Development 1 Development 1
One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
TEC181 or TEC182
TEC111 or TEC112 TEC121 or TEC122 TEC171 or TEC172 TEC501 or TEC502
Web Game
Print Media 2 Virtual Reality
Development 2 Development 2
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
TEC251 or TEC252 TEC191/TEC192
TEC281 or TEC282 TEC511 or TEC512
Virtual Reality
One-Semester Course
TEC191 or TEC192
40 COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET)

--- Page 43 ---
PRINT MEDIA 1 WEB DEVELOPMENT 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION
TEC181–Semester 1 TEC182–Semester 2 TEC281–Semester 1 TEC282–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: Web Development 1 credit: College prep
Print Media 1 is a creative, hands-on design lab where Web Development 2 is where students’ websites come to life.
students will bring their ideas to life—from rough sketches This course moves beyond layout and visuals to focus on user
to real products they can hold, wear or share. Using experience (UX) and interactivity. Students will learn how to
industry-standard tools like Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop, build functional web apps like timers, quizzes, calculators
students will learn how to design for both screens and physical and weather tools—all from scratch using HTML, CSS and
items. They will create everything from stickers, buttons and JavaScript. Students will bring their ideas to life with real-time
t-shirts to posters, window clings, laser-cut wood, acrylic and features, animations and user input. By the end of the course,
leather goods. Along the way, they’ll tackle design challenges, they’ll have a collection of polished, interactive projects
think like a creator and turn their ideas into finished products. to showcase in a professional portfolio that stands out to
Whether they dream of a design career or just love making colleges, internships and future employers.
things, this class gives the tools to do both.
GAME DEVELOPMENT 1
PRINT MEDIA 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
TECHNOLOGY COURSES GPA WAIVER OPTION TEC501–Semester 1 TEC502–Semester 2
TEC251–Semester 1 TEC252–Semester 2 Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Prerequisite: Print Media 1 credit: College prep This course introduces students to the fundamentals of game
Print Media 2 builds on the skills students learned in design through hands-on experience using the Unreal Game
Print Media 1 and takes their designs to the next level. This Engine. Students will learn to create their own games across a
advanced, hands-on design lab introduces Adobe InDesign, variety of genres, even with no prior programming experience.
alongside Illustrator and Photoshop. Students will dive The course will explore object-oriented programming
deeper into designing for both digital and physical products, concepts alongside essential game development skills
working on projects like custom apparel, promotional items, such as 3D modeling, lighting and texturing. Students will
and commercial print products such as banners, packaging, also implement key gameplay mechanics, including player
marketing materials and large-scale prints. Students will controls, physics, collision detection and sound integration.
sharpen their creative problem-solving skills, explore By the end of the course, each student will have designed and
advanced production techniques and bring their ideas to life built fully functional games that showcase their creativity and
with professional design tools. This class is the perfect fit for technical skills.
students excited about exploring the world of printing and
creating high-quality products. GAME DEVELOPMENT 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
WEB DEVELOPMENT 1 TEC511–Semester 1 TEC512–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Prerequisite: Game Development 1 credit: College prep
TEC171–Semester 1 TEC172–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester This course builds on the principles introduced in Game
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Development 1, offering students a deeper exploration into
Web Development 1 is where design meets code. In this game development using the Unreal Game Engine. Students
hands-on course, students will learn how to build websites will expand their skills in object-oriented programming and
from the ground up using HTML5 and CSS3—no templates, focus on more advanced techniques for resource creation,
no shortcuts. Students will explore the world of user interface including detailed 2D and 3D design. Throughout the
(UI) design, creating visually appealing and accessible layouts course, students will create games across a variety of genres.
with carefully chosen colors, fonts and structure. By the end Emphasis will be placed on developing engaging gameplay
of the course, students will have a fully functioning, custom- mechanics, visual storytelling and immersive environments.
designed portfolio website that showcases their work—perfect The course concludes with a capstone project where students
for sharing with friends, future employers or college programs. design and build a full game that showcases the creativity,
If a student is ready to design the web, this is where they start. technical skills and design principles they have developed.
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET) 41

--- Page 44 ---
MOTION GRAPHICS AND VISUAL EFFECTS VIRTUAL REALITY
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION
TEC111–Semester 1 TEC112–Semester 2 TEC191–Semester 1 TEC192–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: Game Development 1 (TEC501 or TEC502)
Credit: College Prep
In Motion Graphics and Visual Effects, students dive into the
world of post-production magic using Adobe After Effects. Step into the world of virtual reality and learn how to create
This advanced course focuses on bringing video to life experiences that are immersive, interactive and impactful. In
through animation, compositing and special effects. Students this hands-on course, students will explore the fundamentals
will master key tools like keyframing, masking and layering of VR development by designing and building a variety of
while learning to animate shapes, text and images. They’ll virtual reality projects. Students will discover how VR is used
also explore how to add realistic visual effects to their own in a wide range of fields—from gaming and animation to
footage—from glowing energy blasts to seamless green screen education, training, storytelling and more. Along the way,
edits. Projects include animated flags, cinemagraphs, kinetic students will design 3D environments, create custom assets
typography, visual effects scenes and professional-style title using rendering software and program user interactions. Each
sequences. Whether a student is into film, animation or digital project is brought to life and tested using VR headsets, giving
design, this course gives them the skills to create the kind of students a fully immersive development experience. Whether
motion graphics one sees in movies, commercials and TV. a student is interested in creating games, exploring emerging
technology or building the future of interactive media, this
course is the starting point for all things virtual reality.
VIDEO EDITING AND PRODUCTION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
TEC121–Semester 1 TEC122–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: none credit: College prep
In Video Editing and Production, students will bring their
stories to life with the tools and techniques used by media
professionals. Students will learn the full video production
workflow—from planning and shooting with professional
DSLR cameras to editing with Adobe Premiere Pro. The course
emphasizes visual storytelling while teaching technical skills
like green screen compositing, motion graphics, color grading
and visual effects. Students also use Adobe Audition for basic
audio cleanup and Foley work to enhance sound quality.
Whether a student is interested in filmmaking, digital media or
content creation, this course builds the creative and technical
foundation to produce compelling, high-quality video content.
42 COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET)

--- Page 45 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT FINE ARTS ONLINE:
FINE ARTS DIVISION www.d125.org/arts
JON GRICE, DIRECTOR | JGRICE@D125.ORG | 847-415-4751
Visual Arts Department Dance Department
Music Department Theatre Department
The Fine Arts curriculum focuses on the necessary skills, concepts and artistic traditions that allow each
student to achieve their potential within each art discipline, and provides a shared common cultural experience.
The curriculum encompasses well-established methods, processes and outcomes, as well as contemporary
approaches, subject matter and themes. It includes introductory opportunities for the novice learner and
differentiated rigorous experiences for the most experienced learners too. Students will be provided with a
solid foundation to pursue post-secondary programs with confidence, well-developed problem-solving skills
and refined higher-order thinking abilities. The curriculum presents students with artistic material of high
and enduring quality from a variety of historical periods, artistic styles and cultures.
Elective courses in the Fine Arts Department may be eligible for the GPA waiver option.
All Dance courses are Fine Arts credit and also satisfy the Physical Education graduation requirement.
Please see the Fine Arts Dance Department section for more information.
FINE ARTS 43

--- Page 46 ---
VISUAL ARTS COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Art and Design
One-Semester Course
ART101 or ART102
Drawing Painting Mixed Media Ceramics Sculpture Metals and Jewelry
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
ART221 or ART222 ART261 or ART262 ART611 or ART612 ART201 or ART202 ART281 or ART282 ART241 or ART242
Advanced Drawing, Advanced Ceramics,
Painting and Metals and Sculpture
Mixed Media One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course ART631 or ART632
ART621 or ART622
AP Art:
Drawing,
2D and 3D Design
Full-Year Course
ART801/ART802
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT
FINE ARTS ONLINE: www.d125.org/arts
44 FINE ARTS—VISUAL ARTS

--- Page 47 ---
VISUAL ARTS: MEDIA ARTS AND ART HISTORY COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Photography 1 Digital Art and Design 1
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
ART401 or ART402 ART501 or ART502
Photography 2 Digital Art and Design 2 2D Animation
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
ART411 or ART412 ART511 or ART512 ART531 or ART532
Advanced
Photography and AP Art History 3D Animation
Full-Year Course One-Semester Course
Digital Design
Full-Year Course ART721/ART722 ART541 or ART542
ART421/ART422
AP Photography
and Digital Design
Full-Year Course
ART871/ART872
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT
FINE ARTS ONLINE: www.d125.org/arts
FINE ARTS—VISUAL ARTS: MEDIA ARTS AND ART HISTORY 45

--- Page 48 ---
VISUAL ARTS DEPARTMENT PAINTING
GPA WAIVER OPTION
THE ACTIVITIES IN ART CLASSES ARE DESIGNED TO ART261–Semester 1 ART262–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
DEVELOP SKILLS OF PERCEPTION, PROBLEM SOLVING, Prerequisite: Art and Design credit: College prep
UNDERSTANDING AND SENSITIVITY THROUGH A VARIETY This course teaches students the concepts, skills, methods
and processes necessary to explore watercolor and oil
OF EXPERIENCES. THE AIM OF THE ART CURRICULUM IS TO
painting. Students create a variety of compositions through
GIVE STUDENTS AN UNDERSTANDING AND APPRECIATION
both quick studies and extended complex paintings. There is
FOR THE ENDLESS AND CONSTANT RESULTS OF ARTISTIC an emphasis on color theory, design principles, media, tools
and a variety of painting techniques.
EFFORTS WHICH SURROUND US IN OUR DAILY LIVES.
THE UNIQUE CHARACTER OF THE ART CURRICULUM MIXED MEDIA
PROVIDES STUDENTS AN OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS AND GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART611–Semester 1 ART612–Semester 2
NURTURE THEIR CREATIVE INSTINCTS AND TO DEVELOP
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
A HIGH SENSE OF APPRECIATION FOR HUMANKIND Prerequisite: Art and Design credit: College prep
This course will help students develop their individual
AND NATURE IN AN ATMOSPHERE WHERE INDIVIDUAL
expression through the use of creative visual problem-solving.
EXPRESSION IS ENCOURAGED. COURSES ARE OFFERED
Students will use colored pencil, pastel, ink pen, watercolor
TO MEET THE VARIED INTERESTS AND ABILITIES OF THE and other media, students will be challenged to think
creatively, work more quickly and experiment with different
STUDENTS. STUDENTS MAY BE REQUIRED TO PURCHASE
techniques and compositional approaches.
SPECIALIZED SUPPLIES AND TOOLS FOR SOME
ART CLASSES.
CERAMICS
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART AND DESIGN ART201–Semester 1 ART202–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
GPA WAIVER OPTION Prerequisite: Art and Design credit: College prep
ART101–Semester 1 ART102–Semester 2
This course is a hands-on class designed for those students
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep who like to work in clay. Students will learn basic and
advanced hand-building techniques and how to use a potter’s
This foundational course introduces students to essential
wheel. They will be introduced to a variety of decorating,
techniques, tools and media across the visual arts. Students
glazing and firing techniques and will produce a number
will explore drawing, painting, sculpture and ceramics
of creative stoneware pieces.
through hands-on studio experiences that emphasize creative
thinking and technical development. This course serves as a
prerequisite for all advanced art classes. SCULPTURE
GPA WAIVER OPTION
DRAWING ART281–Semester 1 ART282–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
GPA WAIVER OPTION Prerequisite: Art and Design credit: College prep
ART221–Semester 1 ART222–Semester 2
This course provides a hands-on approach for understanding
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Art and Design credit: College prep contemporary sculpture. Students will have the opportunity
to work with a variety of 3D media. Sculptural techniques
This course provides students with the opportunity to learn
explored may include additive, subtractive and/or
more advanced realistic drawing and shading techniques.
assemblage, with a focus on creative problem-solving.
Observational drawing and inventive design are explored.
Various color and black and white media are used in this
course.
46 FINE ARTS—VISUAL ARTS

--- Page 49 ---
METALS AND JEWELRY AP ART: DRAWING, 2D AND 3D DESIGN
GPA WAIVER OPTION ART801–Semester 1 ART802–Semester 2
ART241–Semester 1 ART242–Semester 2 Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Prerequisite: Advanced Drawing, Painting and MIXED MEDIA
or Advanced CERAMICS, METALS AND SCULPTURE
Prerequisite: Art and Design credit: College prep
Credit: honors
This course is designed to introduce students to the principles
This course offers students a concentrated program which
of design as applied to metalwork, wire and jewelry. Students
enables them to apply for college credit in art. Emphasis
will learn to cut, file, texture and polish metal pieces. They will
is centered on studio work, the preparation of a portfolio
also solder with a torch and set a cabochon stone.
and the submission of a portfolio for potential AP credit.
In the spring, each student will exhibit their work in a
ADVANCED DRAWING, PAINTING AND MIXED MEDIA
one-person show. This course may be repeated for credit.
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART621–Semester 1 ART622–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Art and Design and two of the following courses:
Drawing, Painting, Studio Art or MIXED MEDIA
Credit: College prep
This course is designed to give students advanced
experiences in creative thinking and problem-solving using
2D art media. In this class, students will build upon the
concepts and skills learned in their Drawing, Painting,
Studio Art and/or Mixed Media classes. Students can choose
to focus on drawing, painting or mixed media either in a
representational or expressive style, to produce works of art
that relate to specific design issues and themes. This course
may be repeated for credit.
ADVANCED CERAMICS, METALS AND SCULPTURE
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART631–Semester 1 ART632–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Art and Design and two of the following courses:
Ceramics, Metals and Jewelry or Sculpture
Credit: College prep
This course gives students advanced experiences in creative
thinking and problem solving with 3D art issues and 3D art
media. In this class, students can focus on ceramics, sculpture
or jewelry and metals to produce works of art that relate
to specific design issues and themes. This course may be
repeated for credit.
FINE ARTS—VISUAL ARTS 47

--- Page 50 ---
PHOTOGRAPHY 1 ADVANCED PHOTOGRAPHY AND DIGITAL DESIGN
GPA WAIVER OPTION ART421–Semester 1 ART422–Semester 2
ART401–Semester 1 ART402–Semester 2 Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Prerequisite: Photography 1, Photography 2
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep or
Digital Art and Design 1, Digital Art and Design 2
Note: Students may use their own DSLR; however, students may
or
check out school-owned cameras for assignments.
2d ANIMATION AND/OR 3D ANIMATION
This foundational course covers basic concepts and Credit: Accelerated
practice of digital photography, including understanding Note: Students may use their own DSLR/Apple Pencil/tripod;
and use of the camera, lenses and other basic photographic however, students may check out a school-owned DSLR, Apple Pencil
and/or tripod for assignments.
equipment. The course will address aesthetic principles as
they relate to composition, space, exposure, light and color. This course offers an advanced study of photography
An introduction to Adobe Photoshop will be studied in this and/or digital design for students who want to pursue image
course. Technological requirements of digital formats will making in a serious manner. Students on the photography
be addressed. Basic digital manipulations of images will be track are introduced to large format printing, DSLR camera
taught in preparation for creating finished art. handling skills and advanced techniques using Adobe
Photoshop and the Creative Suite. Students on the design
PHOTOGRAPHY 2 track will be developing a portfolio of digital drawings and
designs using the Adobe Creative Suite and the Procreate
GPA WAIVER OPTION
drawing app. Design students will also explore methods of
ART411–Semester 1 ART412–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester digital photography to enhance their layout, formatting and
Prerequisite: Photography 1 credit: College prep design skills. Students will explore brainstorming methods to
Note: Students may use their own DSLR/Apple Pencil/tripod; develop stronger concepts and common visual connections
however, students may check out a school-owned DSLR, Apple Pencil through the development of a series of work. Students will
and/or tripod for assignments.
compile a portfolio and assemble a one-person show to be
This course is designed to refine students’ digital exhibited in the spring.
photographic skills and aesthetic judgment as they relate to
composition, space, exposure, light and color. Special effects, AP PHOTOGRAPHY AND DIGITAL DESIGN
studio lighting, portraiture, night photography, use of Adobe
ART871–Semester 1 ART872–Semester 2
Photoshop, the Creative Suite and Procreate are areas studied Open to: 11-12 Full Year
in this course. Technological requirements of digital formats Prerequisite: Advanced Photography and Digital Design
and printing will be addressed. Credit: honors
Note: Students may use their own DSLR/Apple Pencil/tripod;
however, students may check out a school-owned DSLR, Apple Pencil
and/or tripod for assignments.
This course offers digital 2D design drawing and painting
students a concentrated program, which enables them to
apply for college credit in art. Emphasis is centered on studio
work, the preparation of a portfolio and the submission of a
portfolio for potential AP credit. In the spring, each student
will exhibit their work in a one-person show. This course may
be repeated for credit.
48 FINE ARTS—MEDIA ARTS

--- Page 51 ---
DIGITAL ART AND DESIGN 1 3D ANIMATION
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART501–Semester 1 ART502–Semester 2 ART541–Semester 1 ART542–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: 2D Animation and/or director approval
Note: Students may use their own Apple Pencil; however, students Credit: College prep
may check out a school-owned Apple Pencil for assignments. This course is designed for students with an interest in
This course is designed to introduce students to Adobe 3D animation. Students will build upon the concepts, skills
Photoshop and Procreate as drawing and graphic design tools and techniques learned from 2D Animation to help them learn
and as a means of producing finished artwork. Students will to use 3D animation software to create and animate their own
have the opportunity to develop skills and be creative while 3D models/characters. Polygon and NURB modeling, texturing,
digitally drawing, painting and manipulating photographic lighting and basic 3D key-frame/path animation will be
images with both Wacom tablets as well as the iPad and Apple explored.
Pencil. Projects will have fine arts, photography, media arts
and graphic design components. ART HISTORY
DIGITAL ART AND DESIGN 2
AP ART HISTORY
GPA WAIVER OPTION ART721–Semester 1 ART722–Semester 2
ART511–Semester 1 ART512–Semester 2 Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Prerequisite: None credit: honors
Prerequisite: Digital Art and Design 1 credit: College prep
This course is designed as an introductory college-level course
Note: Students may use their own Apple Pencil; however, students
in the history of art. Students will examine the major forms
may check out a school-owned Apple Pencil for assignments.
of artistic expression from prehistoric through contemporary
This course is designed to be an advanced or second level for
cultures. They will study architecture, sculpture, painting and
students interested in furthering their study and exploration
other art forms with intelligence and sensitivity. Students who
of using Adobe Photoshop as well as Procreate as a drawing
enroll in this course will be prepared to take the AP Art History
and graphic design tool. Students will have the opportunity to
exam in May.
develop skills and be creative while digitally drawing, painting
and manipulating photographic images with both Wacom
tablets as well as the iPad and Apple Pencil. Students will
be introduced to more complex concepts and techniques of
media arts and graphic design. The course will have fine arts,
photographic and commercial art components.
2D ANIMATION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART531–Semester 1 ART532–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Digital Art and Design 1 credit: College prep
This course provides students the opportunity to study
and explore 2D animation. Students will study the history
of animation and work with 2D animation software to
produce their own animated shorts, from initial concept
and storyboarding through final rendering. Concepts and
techniques in vector-based drawing, timing, key-framing
and music and lip synchronization will be explored.
FINE ARTS—MEDIA ARTS 49

--- Page 52 ---
DANCE COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Dance 1
Full-Year Course
DNC101/DNC102
Jazz Fusion
One-Semester Course
DNC321 or DNC322
Dance 2 Technical Skills
Full-Year Course One-Semester Course
DNC201/DNC202 DNC311 or DNC312
Dance 3
Full-Year Course
DNC301/DNC302
DDaannccee LLeeaaddeerrsshhiipp
FFuullll--YYeeaarr CCoouurrssee
DDNNCC660011//DDNNCC660022
Dance 4 Concert Dance
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
DNC401/DNC402 DNC501/DNC502
* IMPORTANT NOTE FOR ALL DANCE CLASSES: Note: All incoming freshmen interested in an upper-level Dance
All Dance courses are Fine Arts credits and also satisfy the Physical course (Dance 2, 3 or 4) must attend a placement assessment in
Education graduation requirement. January. Based off the assessment, students will be given the
appropriate level placement. All other students may register for
Dance 1 with no audition necessary. All current placements are
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT
held in January/early February. Transfer students placements are
FINE ARTS ONLINE: www.d125.org/arts
held in August before classes begin. Information about exact dates
and times can be found on the Stevenson website:
https://www.d125.org/academics/academic-divisions/fine-arts/dance
50 FINE ARTS—DANCE

--- Page 53 ---
DANCE DEPARTMENT DANCE 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL PROVIDES DANCE AS A DNC201–Semester 1 DNC202–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
CREATIVE AND REWARDING ART EXPERIENCE WHERE Prerequisite: Dance 1 AND/or placement by instructor
Credit: College prep
ARTISTIC INTEGRITY AND APPRECIATION ARE DEVELOPED.
This course is designed for students who have some
DANCE IS A PHYSICAL AND MENTAL DISCIPLINE.
experience in contemporary dance technique. Emphasis
STUDENTS ARE PROVIDED OPPORTUNITIES TO DEVELOP will be on dance vocabulary, essential choreographic concepts
BODY STRENGTH, AGILITY, COORDINATION, CREATIVE and basic anatomy as it pertains to dance. Practice and
repetition are primary means of learning movement and
PROBLEM-SOLVING SKILLS, ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS
are followed by assessment and teacher feedback. Students
AND THE ABILITY TO WORK EFFECTIVELY IN COOPERATIVE
will also participate in peer-to-peer feedback. Students
LEARNING GROUPS. THEY GAIN SELF-CONFIDENCE, are required to attend and critique the Winter and Spring
Dance Concerts. Students will also participate in the Dance
SELF-DISCIPLINE AND SATISFACTION IN MOVEMENT.
Demonstrations during first semester and the Day of Dance
STUDENTS WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN
performance during second semester. This course may be
A VARIETY OF DANCE STYLES FROM GUEST DANCE repeated for credit.
TEACHERS DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR. DANCE STUDENTS
DANCE 3
ARE REGULARLY ASSESSED ON ALL COURSE SKILLS.
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ALL DANCE STUDENTS ARE REQUIRED TO PURCHASE
DNC301–Semester 1 DNC302–Semester 2
AND WEAR APPROPRIATE ATTIRE AS DESIGNATED BY Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Dance 2 and/or placement by instructor
THE DANCE TEACHER.
Credit: College prep
This course is designed for students with previous dance
DANCE 1 training. Students will focus on the detailed aspects of
contemporary dance at an accelerated pace. Emphasis is on
GPA WAIVER OPTION
the student’s technique and choreography studies. Students
DNC101–Semester 1 DNC102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year engage in critical response and self-assessment activities
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep to enhance content knowledge. Dancers will challenge
This course will introduce and review essential dance skills. their physical limitations and their ability to dance to their
Students will learn basic dance movement and concepts such full potential. Students are required to attend and critique
as time, space and energy, as well as movement terminology. the Winter and Spring Dance Concerts. Students will also
Practice and repetition are primary means of learning participate in the Dance Demonstration performance during
movement and are followed by assessment and teacher first semester and the Day of Dance performance during
feedback. Emphasis will be on dance movement followed by second semester. This course may be repeated for credit.
a focus on refining technique and choreography concepts.
Students will be asked to demonstrate risk-taking and a
willingness to step outside their comfort zone. Students will
also learn basic dance anatomy and conditioning exercises
to prepare the body for flexibility, strength and endurance.
Students will also participate in peer-to-peer feedback.
Students are required to attend and critique the Winter and
Spring Dance Concerts. Students will also participate in the
Dance Demonstration during first semester and the Day of
Dance performance during second semester. This course
may be repeated for credit.
FINE ARTS—DANCE 51

--- Page 54 ---
DANCE 4 JAZZ FUSION
GPA WAIVER OPTION GPA WAIVER OPTION
DNC401–Semester 1 DNC402–Semester 2 DNC321–Semester 1 DNC322–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Dance 3 and/or placement by instructor Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Credit: College prep
This course will introduce and review essential dance skills
This course is designed for students who have achieved a that pertain to the jazz dance genre. Over the semester of
high degree of technical skill. The class will work toward this jazz survey course, students will learn and engage in jazz,
developing and enhancing performance qualities. The hip hop, musical theatre and dance fitness movement. With
emphasis is on challenging students’ creative skills in focus on creativity, discipline and technical development,
order to strengthen versatility of movement styles through dancers work in a nurturing atmosphere to build confidence
choreographic and compositional strategies. Students will and life/dance skills. The Jazz Fusion curriculum is designed
also be introduced to leadership skills through assisting with to help dancers create a strong foundation through repetitive
or leading peers in instruction. Course content knowledge movement, dance vocabulary, discussion and explorations.
is enhanced through critical response and self-assessment No experience is necessary and this course may be repeated
activities. Students are required to attend and critique for credit.
the Winter and Spring Dance Concerts. Students will also
participate in the Dance Demonstration performance during
TECHNICAL SKILLS
first semester and the Day of the Dance performance during
GPA WAIVER OPTION
second semester. This course may be repeated for credit.
DNC311–Semester 1 DNC312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
CONCERT DANCE Prerequisite: Dance 2 or higher, and/or teacher approval
Credit: College prep
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
GPA WAIVER OPTION This course will focus on honing technical dance skills by
DNC501–Semester 1 DNC502–Semester 2 working on anatomical alignment, physical strength and
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year flexibility. Students will practice technical movements such
Prerequisite: Dance 4 or A senior who has completed Dance 3
as jumps, turns and leaps. Students will also learn specific
Credit: HONORS
dance conditioning practices to increase the quality of dance
Additional fees for dual credit may be imposed by the
college/university. execution. This course may be repeated for credit.
This course is designed for students who have had
advanced training in contemporary dance, as well as a DANCE LEADERSHIP
strong background in ballet, jazz and composition. Concert
GPA WAIVER OPTION
dancers are responsible for maintaining a high quality of DNC601–Semester 1 DNC602–Semester 2
technical skill. The Concert Dance class will work toward Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
developing and enhancing performance and choreographic Prerequisites: Students must complete a minimum of one year
in Dance 3 or Dance 4 and/or approval of instructors
skills in preparation for college-level dance study and/
Credit: College prep
or professional studio experience. Concert dancers will
Dance Leadership is a one-year course where students will
choreograph their own dances and perform in the Winter and
intern and assist with dance instruction in a technique class.
Spring Dance Concerts. Daily and after-school rehearsals will
Dance leaders will learn and demonstrate the teacher-created
be scheduled one to two weeks prior to the opening of the
combinations including warm-ups, across the floor and center
Winter and Spring Concerts and attendance is mandatory.
combinations. Dance leaders will model proper technique
Students may also audition for guest choreographers. These
and assist students. Dance Leaders will periodically work
rehearsals take place after school and are required, if cast.
one-on-one with dance students in a peer mentoring fashion.
Fees are approximately $150 for after-school dance company
While taking this course, the Dance Leaders will also meet
expenses. Admission into Concert Dance is based on the
individually with the teacher outside of class to learn what
submission of a portfolio submitted to and approved by the
they will instruct at the end of each semester. They will also
Dance Department. This course may be repeated for credit.
create exercises and a lesson that they will instruct at the end
of each semester. Dance Leadership applications are available
on the Dance website in early November and are due by
December 5. This course may be repeated for credit.
52 FINE ARTS—DANCE

--- Page 55 ---
MUSIC COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
BAND COURSES CHORAL COURSES ORCHESTRA COURSES
Freshman Band Stevenson Singers Stevenson Orchestra
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
MUS101/MUS102 MUS201/MUS202 MUS301/MUS302
Symphonic Band Advanced Chorus Concert Orchestra
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
MUS121/MUS122 MUS211/MUS212 MUS311/MUS312
Wind Symphony Patriot Singers Symphonic Orchestra
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
MUS131/MUS132 MUS221/MUS222 MUS331/MUS332
Wind Ensemble Patriot Orchestra
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
MUS141/MUS142 MUS321/MUS322
General MUSIC COURSES GUITAR COURSES
Piano 1 Music Production 1 Guitar 1
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course Full-Year Course
MUS401 or MUS402 MUS431 or MUS432 MUS421/MUS422
Music Production 2 Guitar 2
One-Semester Course Full-Year Course
MUS451 or MUS452 MUS461/MUS462
Advanced Patriot Guitar
AP Music Theory
Music Production Ensemble
Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
SCAN QR CODE TO MUS801/MUS802
MUS471/MUS472 MUS441/MUS442
READ MORE ABOUT
FINE ARTS ONLINE:
www.d125.org/arts
FINE ARTS—MUSIC 53

--- Page 56 ---
MUSIC DEPARTMENT BAND
MUSIC STUDY HELPS STUDENTS DEVELOP SKILLS IN
FRESHMAN BAND*
COMPREHENDING, CREATIVE PROBLEM SOLVING, WORKING
GPA WAIVER OPTION
AS A TEAM, LOGICAL REASONING, USING SYMBOLS, MUS101–Semester 1 MUS102–Semester 2
Open to: 9 Full Year
CONCEPTUALIZING, MAKING VALUE JUDGMENTS AND
Prerequisite: Prior Band experience or approval
COMMUNICATING. IT PROMOTES CULTURAL AWARENESS of Band FACULTY
Credit: College prep
AND PROVIDES UNIQUE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
All incoming freshmen with middle school band experience
SELF-EXPRESSION AND CREATIVITY. THE STEVENSON
may enroll in Freshman Band to continue work on their
MUSIC DEPARTMENT OFFERS A VARIETY OF CLASSES comprehensive musicianship skills. Freshman Band members
also perform in three formal concerts throughout the year.
THAT ALLOW STUDENTS TO BEGIN—OR CONTINUE—
For the first eight to nine weeks of the first semester, band
A STRONG, SEQUENTIAL PROGRAM OF MUSIC STUDY.
students may choose to perform in the highly acclaimed
COURSES ARE OFFERED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC, Marching Patriots with members of the Symphonic Band,
Wind Symphony and Wind Ensemble. Students electing to
VOCAL MUSIC AND NON-PERFORMANCE CLASSES.
participate in Marching Band may receive a P.E. waiver for
the first semester.
THOUGH MANY OBJECTIVES FOR MUSIC EDUCATION
CAN BE MET IN THE CLASSROOM, IT IS IMPORTANT
SYMPHONIC BAND*
THAT STUDENTS, WHO ARE DEVELOPING MUSIC SKILLS,
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ARE PROVIDED OPPORTUNITIES TO DISPLAY THEIR MUS121–Semester 1 MUS122–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
ACCOMPLISHMENTS THROUGH CONCERTS, RECITALS,
Prerequisite: Audition with band faculty
PARADES, FESTIVALS AND OTHER PERFORMANCE Credit: College Prep
EXPERIENCES. THESE ARE A DIRECT OUTGROWTH OF Students in grades 10-12 with band experience in Freshman
Band may enroll in Symphonic Band to continue work
THE NATURE OF THE ART WHICH IS BEING STUDIED.
on comprehensive musicianship skills. Symphonic Band
THEREFORE, PERFORMING ENSEMBLES INCLUDE AN
members also perform in four formal concerts throughout
EMPHASIS ON THE IMPORTANCE OF PARTICIPATION the year. For the first eight to nine weeks of the first semester,
band students may choose to perform in the highly acclaimed
IN OCCASIONAL AFTER-SCHOOL REHEARSALS AND
Marching Patriots with members of the Freshman Band,
PERFORMANCES.
Wind Symphony and Wind Ensemble. Students electing to
participate in Marching Band may receive a P.E. waiver for the
first semester. This course may be repeated for credit.
* IMPORTANT NOTE FOR ALL BAND CLASSES:
In order to earn a P.E. waiver, all band students who participate in the
Marching Patriots must be available for rehearsals during summer
and fall evenings. Students must also obtain all necessary GPA waiver
approvals.
54 FINE ARTS—MUSIC

--- Page 57 ---
WIND SYMPHONY* CHOIR
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS131–Semester 1 MUS132–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year STEVENSON SINGERS
Prerequisite: Audition with BAND FACULTY
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Credit: College Prep
MUS201–Semester 1 MUS202–Semester 2
Students in grades 10-12 with band experience may
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
audition to enroll in Wind Symphony to continue work on Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
comprehensive musicianship skills. Wind Symphony members This ensemble is an entry level singing course, available to all
also perform in four formal concerts throughout the year. students of all grade levels, regardless of previous experience.
For the first eight to nine weeks of the first semester, band This course focuses on developing fundamental skills for
students may choose to perform in the highly acclaimed individual and group singing, and comprehensive musician
Marching Patriots with members of the Freshman Band, skills. Stevenson Singers perform at five school concerts
Symphonic Band and Wind Ensemble. Students electing to throughout the year. This course may be repeated for credit.
participate in Marching Band may receive a P.E. waiver for the
first semester. This course may be repeated for credit.
ADVANCED CHORUS
WIND ENSEMBLE* GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
MUS211–Semester 1 MUS212–Semester 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY) Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
MUS141–Semester 1 MUS142–Semester 2 Prerequisite: Audition with choir faculty
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Prerequisite: Audition with BAND FACULTY
Experienced sopranos and altos may audition for this
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
advanced vocal ensemble. Students will continue to work
Students in grades 10-12 with band experience may
on developing more advanced skills for individual and
audition to enroll in Wind Ensemble to continue work on
group singing, as well as comprehensive musicianship.
comprehensive musicianship skills. Wind Ensemble also
This ensemble performs at five school concerts and may
performs in five annual concerts at Stevenson High School
also participate in additional performance opportunities or
and may also participate in additional performance
festivals. Seniors may earn accelerated credit in this course.
opportunities or festivals. For the first eight to nine weeks
This course may be repeated for credit.
of the first semester, band students may choose to perform
in the highly acclaimed Marching Patriots with members of
PATRIOT SINGERS
the Freshman Band, Symphonic Band and Wind Symphony.
Students electing to participate in Marching Band may GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
receive a P.E. waiver for the first semester. This course may MUS221–Semester 1 MUS222–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
be repeated for credit.
Prerequisite: Audition with choir faculty, treble voices need to
have completed one year in Advanced Chorus
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Experienced students of all voice parts may audition for
Patriot Singers. This is an advanced SATB vocal ensemble,
where students will be challenged with a wide variety of
repertoire, and further develop advanced musicianship
skills. The Patriot Singers perform at five school concerts,
community events and may also participate in additional
performance opportunities or festivals. Seniors may earn
accelerated credit in this course. This course may be
repeated for credit.
Note: Seniors who are enrolled in Wind Ensemble, Patriot Orchestra, * IMPORTANT NOTE FOR ALL BAND CLASSES:
Patriot Guitar Ensemble, Patriot Singers and Advanced Chorus and In order to earn a P.E. waiver, all band students who participate in the
have been active for four semesters in performing ensembles, earn Marching Patriots must be available for rehearsals during summer
accelerated-level grade points unless requesting a GPA waiver. Band and fall evenings. Students must also obtain all necessary GPA waiver
students participating in Marching Band are offered a P.E. waiver for approvals.
the first semester.
FINE ARTS—MUSIC 55

--- Page 58 ---
ORCHESTRA SYMPHONIC ORCHESTRA
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS331–Semester 1 MUS332–Semester 2
STEVENSON ORCHESTRA Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Auditions are required for all students with the
GPA WAIVER OPTION orchestra faculty
MUS301–Semester 1 MUS302–Semester 2 Credit: College prep
Open to: 9 Full Year
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent
Prerequisite: All incoming Freshman Orchestra students
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may
should register for this class
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
Credit: College prep
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent This course is designed for advanced violin, viola, cello,
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may bass and harp string students. The repertoire in this class
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
includes works for chamber groups, string ensemble and full
This course is open to students in grade 9, as well as transfer orchestra. Musical works highlight repertoire of the Baroque,
students who demonstrate the appropriate level of technical Classical and early Romantic eras with performances on five
preparedness on violin, viola, cello, bass or harp. Students formal concerts throughout the school year. Students in this
will continue developing foundational and intermediate class will work towards mastery of three-octave major and
performance techniques while expanding their knowledge minor scales and arpeggios, concerto-level repertoire, music
of music theory and comprehensive musicianship skills. The theory concepts and comprehensive musicianship skills. The
ensemble will study and perform a variety of string orchestra students in this ensemble collaborate with members of Wind
and chamber music repertoire. Students are required to Symphony each year for an exploration of the full orchestra
attend scheduled rehearsals and performances outside of the repertoire. This course may be repeated for credit.
school day. Performance commitments include four formal
concerts and additional curricular string events throughout PATRIOT ORCHESTRA
the school year. Incoming students in grade 9 and transfer
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
students are encouraged to attend a one-day summer strings
MUS321–Semester 1 MUS322–Semester 2
camp in August to become familiar with the strings program Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
and facilities. This course may be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: All students must have completed one full year
of Concert or Symphonic Orchestra in addition to a formal
audition and approval from the Orchestra faculty
CONCERT ORCHESTRA Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent
GPA WAIVER OPTION
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may
MUS311–Semester 1 MUS312–Semester 2
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Prior orchestra experience and/or approval This course is designed for students in grades 10–12 who play
of Orchestra FACULTY
violin, viola, cello, bass or harp and demonstrate advanced
Credit: College prep
string technique. Repertoire includes works for chamber
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may ensemble, string orchestra and full orchestra with a focus
use school instruments for daily rehearsals. on advanced literature ranging from the mid-19th century
to contemporary composers. Students will be expected to
This course is designed for students in grades 10–12 who
demonstrate mastery of all three-octave major and minor
play violin, viola, cello, bass or harp with advanced string
scales and arpeggios, concerto repertoire, music theory
technique. Students will study two- and three-octave scales
concepts and comprehensive musicianship skills. In addition
and arpeggios while developing advanced performance
to performing advanced repertoire, members of this ensemble
techniques, music theory knowledge and comprehensive
collaborate annually with the Wind Ensemble to study and
musicianship skills. The orchestra will perform a wide range of
present full-orchestra literature. Students are required to
intermediate to advanced string orchestra and chamber music
attend scheduled rehearsals and performances outside of the
repertoire. Students will participate in four formal concerts
school day. Performance commitments include five formal
as well as additional curricular string events throughout the
concerts and additional curricular string events throughout
school year. This course may be repeated for credit.
the year. Seniors may earn accelerated credit for this course.
This course may be repeated for credit.
56 FINE ARTS—MUSIC

--- Page 59 ---
GUITAR PATRIOT GUITAR ENSEMBLE
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
MUS441–Semester 1 MUS442–Semester 2
GUITAR 1 Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Auditions are required for all students WITH THE
GPA WAIVER OPTION GUITAR FACULTY
MUS421–Semester 1 MUS422–Semester 2 Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
This course is designed for advanced guitarists who are
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
interested in further developing technique and musicianship.
This course is designed for students who are interested
The repertoire performed in this class includes chamber works
in learning how to play the guitar and/or develop strong
for guitar, large ensemble pieces by composers of varied eras
technical skills in guitar performance. While this course is
and extensive solo work repertoire. Emphasis is placed on
designed for a brand new guitarist, it also supports students
development of technique, music-reading skills, composition,
with some guitar experience. This course will introduce
sight-reading, jazz voicings of chords and expressive
the techniques and musicianship skills in order to perform
performance as soloists and ensemble members. Nylon string,
classical, blues, jazz, rock and pop repertoire. Students will
classical guitars are provided for class use. It is recommended
learn music reading skills, sight-reading, chords, collaboration,
to have an additional guitar at home to practice. Students
practice skills and expressive performance and listening skills.
perform three concerts throughout the year. This class may
Nylon string, classical guitars are provided. It is recommended
be repeated for credit.
to have an additional guitar at home to practice. This course
may be repeated for credit.
GUITAR 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS461–Semester 1 MUS462–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Guitar 1 or per audition with the guitar faculty
Credit: College prep
This course is designed for guitarists who are interested
in advancing their guitar abilities. Students will refine
and further develop musicianship to develop a high level
of performance on guitar. Emphasis is placed on the
development of technique, music-reading skills, sight-reading,
more technical chords throughout the neck of the guitar,
and expressive performance, solo repertoire and ensemble
skills. Nylon string, classical guitars are provided for class
use. It is recommended to have an additional guitar at home
to practice. Students perform two concerts throughout the
year. This class may be repeated for credit. Students repeating
this course or students with guitar experiences will receive
a more tailored curriculum to help develop their skills and
musicianship.
Note: Seniors who are enrolled in Wind Ensemble, Patriot Orchestra, * IMPORTANT NOTE FOR ALL BAND CLASSES:
Patriot Guitar Ensemble, Patriot Singers and Advanced Chorus and In order to earn a P.E. waiver, all band students who participate in the
have been active for four semesters in performing ensembles, earn Marching Patriots must be available for rehearsals during summer
accelerated-level grade points unless requesting a GPA waiver. Band and fall evenings. Students must also obtain all necessary GPA waiver
students participating in Marching Band are offered a P.E. waiver for approvals.
the first semester.
FINE ARTS—MUSIC 57

--- Page 60 ---
GENERAL MUSIC COURSES ADVANCED MUSIC PRODUCTION
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
GPA WAIVER OPTION
PIANO 1 MUS471–Semester 1 MUS472–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Prerequisite: Music Production 2 or Placement by Instructor
MUS401–Semester 1 MUS402–Semester 2
Credit: HONORS
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Advanced Music Production is a course designed for students
interested in pursuing advanced concepts in music production.
This course is designed for students of all skill levels, from
This course will provide real world experiences to students
non-experienced through advanced. This class will introduce
and prepare them to participate in the music industry after
students to music notation, basic music theory, keyboard
high school and beyond. Students in this course will get
technique and music terminology through the study of
to experience the process of recording original music in a
keyboard repertoire. Students will work independently,
professional studio setting and all students will participate
collaboratively and with instructor guidance to shape their
in a Music Production Showcase at the end of each semester.
musical goals, including selecting their own music to learn
Students will have access to music production software,
and perform. Students repeating this course or students with
instruments and recording equipment both at home and at
theory and composition experiences will be able to experience
school. This course may be repeated for credit.
more advanced musical topics. This course may be repeated
for credit.
AP MUSIC THEORY
MUSIC PRODUCTION 1 MUS801–Semester 1 MUS802–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
GPA WAIVER OPTION Prerequisite: Membership in either Instrumental or Vocal
MUS431–Semester 1 MUS432–Semester 2 Ensemble or approval of instructor
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Credit: honors
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
This course is designed for the advanced musician who
This course will explore concepts in production, recording, is interested in enhancing their music ability through a
performance, audio engineering, music business, sound rigorous study of Western music theory. Students learn the
design, music marketing and more. Students will have access basics of tonal harmony, including: chord construction,
to music production software, instruments and recording four-part voice writing, harmonic analysis and harmonic
equipment in order to create, edit and mix the music that sequence. Students also study ear training, sight singing,
interests them. Music Production 1 is open to all students melodic, rhythmic and harmonic dictation, 20th century
with an interest in music, no prior experience is necessary. techniques and form/structure. Students who enroll in this
All students will have the option to participate in a Music course will be prepared to take the AP Music Theory exam in
Production Showcase at the end of the semester. May, as well as entrance examinations given by schools of
music for entering music majors/minors.
MUSIC PRODUCTION 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS451–Semester 1 MUS452–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Music Production 1 or approval of instructor
Credit: College prep
Music Production 2 is a course designed for students
interested in furthering their study and exploration of music
production and the music industry. Students will pursue more
advanced concepts and techniques resulting in a substantial
amount of original music by the end of the course. Students
will have access to music production software, instruments
and recording equipment in order to create, edit and mix the
music that interests them. All students will participate in a
Music Production Showcase at the end of the semester.
58 FINE ARTS—MUSIC

--- Page 61 ---
THEATRE COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Acting 1: Confidence Entertainment
and Collaboration Production and Design
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
THR101 or THR102 THR121 or THR122
Acting 2: Character
and Comedy
One-Semester Course
THR111 or THR112
Acting 3
Semester 1 Course Only
THR211
Acting 4
Semester 2 Course Only
THR212
Theatre Leadership: Leadership in
Advanced Acting
Directing and Theatre Studies
One-Semester Course
Management One-Semester Course
THR401 or THR402
One-Semester Course THR601 or THR602
THR301 or THR302
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT
FINE ARTS ONLINE: www.d125.org/arts
FINE ARTS—THEATRE 59

--- Page 62 ---
THEATRE DEPARTMENT
ENTERTAINMENT PRODUCTION AND DESIGN
GPA WAIVER OPTION
THEATRE CLASSES AT STEVENSON FEATURE A THR121–Semester 1 THR122–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
SEQUENTIAL AND CUMULATIVE CURRICULUM WHICH Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
ALLOWS STUDENTS TO DEVELOP THEATRICAL SKILLS Entertainment Production and Design takes students
behind the scenes of theatre, film, TV, concerts, events
WHILE EXPLORING THEIR UNIQUE CREATIVITY AND
and digital media. Areas of study include scenery, lighting,
CONSIDERING SOCIAL AND HISTORICAL CONTEXT
sound engineering, costumes, special effects makeup and
AND IMPACT. SOME COURSES INCLUDE A PUBLIC production management. Students will collaborate with
professional designers as they learn how to safely work in
PERFORMANCE COMPONENT.
our state-of-the-art scenic (woodworking), costume and
lighting shops. This is a hands-on and collaborative class
WHILE THEATRE COURSES CAN PROVIDE
where students will strengthen communication, problem-
PRE-PROFESSIONAL TRAINING FOR STUDENTS, THE
solving and leadership skills while gaining a comprehensive
ULTIMATE GOALS ARE TO DEVELOP 21ST CENTURY understanding of the production process in order to prepare
TRANSFER SKILLS, TO HAVE FUN CREATING ART, TO for careers in entertainment, fashion, STEM and other creative
and hands-on fields. This course may be repeated for credit;
DEVELOP ENSEMBLE AND COMMUNITY, TO BUILD
repeating students will have the opportunity to learn digital
SELF-AWARENESS AND CONFIDENCE AND TO EXPLORE design programs including CAD, CNC router, laser printers,
EMPATHY AND CRITICAL THINKING THROUGH DIVERSE 3D printers, Illustrator, Cricut and production specific software
including QLab, VectorWorks, lighting consoles, sound boards,
STORIES.
networking for entertainment control systems, motorized
rigging and more.
ACTING 2: CHARACTER AND COMEDY
ACTING 1: CONFIDENCE AND COLLABORATION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
THR111–Semester 1 THR112–Semester 2
THR101–Semester 1 THR102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Acting 1: Confidence and Collaboration
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Credit: College prep
Acting 1: Confidence and Collaboration is an introductory
Acting 2: Character and Comedy builds upon the work
theatre survey and performance- based class. This course
of Acting 1: Confidence and Collaboration with a greater
emphasizes the basic skills and techniques of theatre
emphasis on building character through improv comedy
artists including: ensemble collaboration, confidence and
as well as diverse scripted scene work. We will continue to
risk-taking, imagination, focus, performance, rehearsal and
build skills in performing, writing, analysis and ensemble.
text analysis. These skills also prepare students for careers
Successful completion of this course prepares students to
in all areas of entertainment, education, business, law and
enroll in Acting 3 and 4.
STEM. Techniques to be covered include warm-up activities
and exercises, ensemble communication and collaboration,
improvisation, pantomime, text interpretation, performance
critique, character creation, and solo and scene performances,
with an emphasis on transferability. Students interested
in pursuing public performance opportunities will be
encouraged to audition for department productions and
to take advanced level theatre courses.
60 FINE ARTS—THEATRE

--- Page 63 ---
ACTING 3 THEATRE LEADERSHIP: DIRECTING
AND MANAGEMENT
GPA WAIVER OPTION
THR211–Semester 1 only GPA WAIVER OPTION
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester THR301–Semester 1 THR302–Semester 2
Prerequisite: Acting 2: Character and Comedy Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Credit: College prep Prerequisite: Acting 4 Or Entertainment Production and Design
and Instructor Approval
Acting 3 is an advanced theatre course with an emphasis Credit: College prep
on student-generated performance. Specific areas of focus
This directing course focuses on developing leadership skills
include improv comedy and student written performance
and artistic directing. In addition to coaching actors, students
relating to contemporary social issues. Acting 3 culminates
in this class have the opportunity to put their advanced level
in an original devised performance, as part of the Patriot
theatre collaboration skills to use as they focus on production
Theatre Company season.
processes such as stage management, season development
and creating community within ensembles. The course
ACTING 4 also examines innovative theatre practices that push the
GPA WAIVER OPTION boundaries of the theatre experience.
THR212–Semester 2 only
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
LEADERSHIP IN THEATRE STUDIES
Prerequisites: Acting 3 credit: College prep
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Acting 4 is an advanced theatre course which allows students
THR601–Semester 1 THR602–Semester 2
to explore and perform a wide range of theatrical texts and
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
traditions. Students will gain knowledge of influential theatre Prerequisite: Acting 4 OR ENTERTAINMENT PRODUCTION AND DESIGN
styles including Greek, Commedia dell’arte, Shakespeare and and Instructor approval
Credit: College prep
other global traditions.
Leadership in Theatre Studies is a one-semester course in
which students will intern and assist with theatre instruction
ADVANCED ACTING
in Acting 1: Confidence and Collaboration, Acting 2: Character
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
and Comedy, Acting 3, Acting 4 and/or Entertainment
GPA WAIVER OPTION
Production and Design courses. Student leaders will lead
THR401–Semester 1 THR402–Semester 2
by example, demonstrating superior ensemble behavior,
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Acting 4 credit: HONORS providing critical feedback to their peers and modeling
ADDITIONAL FEES FOR DUAL CREDIT MAY BE IMPOSED BY THE COLLEGE/ performance expectations. Student leaders will work with
UNIVERSITY.
individual students and small groups as they prepare for
In Advanced Acting, students will experience an intensive performances. They will also have regular check-ins with
theatre course in performance, production and leadership. their teacher, to set personal goals and plan for instructional
Students will build on the foundations of Acting 1-4 to opportunities. This course may be repeated for credit.
analyze and present complex theatrical texts. Advanced
Acting prepares students to be involved in departmental
productions in acting and production capacities. This course
also prepares students for college and professional theatre
pursuits, as well as the transfer of theatre skills to all career
avenues. Students will be expected to conduct themselves as
theatre professionals and role models to the entire theatre
community. Advanced Acting culminates in a public showcase
of a scripted work as part of the Patriot Theatre Company
season. This course may be repeated for credit.
FINE ARTS—THEATRE 61

--- Page 64 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT MATHEMATICS ONLINE:
MATHEMATICS DIVISION www.d125.org/academics/mathematics
DARSHAN JAIN, DIRECTOR | DJAIN@D125.ORG | 847-415-4600
The Mathematics Division is committed to ensuring all students experience mathematics as accessible, practical and worthwhile.
Coursework spans algebra, geometry, advanced mathematics, quantitative literacy and mathematical modeling. Students learn
to interpret data, evaluate numerical information and make informed decisions. Through modeling, they connect abstract concepts
with real-world contexts, analyze data and solve authentic problems that are essential for informed citizenship, postsecondary
study and the modern workplace.
Instruction is guided by the Standards for Mathematical Practice (CCSSM, 2010), which help students understand concepts and apply
learning in unfamiliar contexts. These practices foster learning that is conceptual, adaptive and precise. As students progress, they
strengthen their ability to explain solutions in writing, articulate reasoning verbally and engage in sense-making that builds clarity
and shared understanding. The faculty emphasizes collaboration, persistence and productive struggle as essential to growth. The
instructional design promotes cooperative learning, active participation and independent practice. Graphing calculators and other
technologies support concept development and deepen understanding, preparing students for innovation in a rapidly changing world.
Students will experience mathematics as both practical and culturally significant, fostering equity and contributing to society through
its intellectual and social relevance. To graduate, students must earn six semesters of mathematics credit, including Algebra 1 and at
least one course with geometry content. Completing eight semesters is strongly recommended to prepare for college, career and
vocational opportunities.
62 MATHEMATICS

--- Page 65 ---
MATHEMATICS COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Algebra 1
Full-Year Course
MTH151/MTH152
GGeeoommeettrryy GGeeoommeettrryy AABB//BBCC
FFuullll--YYeeaarr CCoouurrssee FFuullll--YYeeaarr CCoouurrssee
MMTTHH225511//MMTTHH225522 MMTTHH227711//MMTTHH227722
AAllggeebbrraa 22 AAllggeebbrraa 22 AABB//BBCC
FFuullll--YYeeaarr CCoouurrssee FFuullll--YYeeaarr CCoouurrssee
MMTTHH335511//MMTTHH335522 MMTTHH117711//MMTTHH117722
Courses focused on Courses focused on
Algebraic and Analytic Reasoning (AAR) Application and Quantitative Reasoning (AQR)
Mathematical Advanced
Precalculus AP Precalculus AB AP Precalculus BC
Modeling and Design Mathematical
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course Decision Making
MTH451/MTH452 MTH411/MTH412 MTH421/MTH422
MTH431/MTH432 Full-Year Course
MTH441/MTH442
College
AP Calculus AB AP Calculus BC Data Science AP Statistics
Multivariable
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
Calculus
MTH471/MTH472 MTH491/MTH492 MTH481/MTH482 MTH461/MTH462
Semester 1 Course Only
MTH591
College
Linear Algebra
Semester 2 Course Only
MTH592
Calculator recommendation
A graphing calculator is required for all mathematics courses. The TI-84 Plus CE graphing calculator is strongly recommended as the
preferred calculator for all Stevenson High School mathematics courses. In addition, students will use a Stevenson-issued iPad to access
notes, view feedback, engage in learning activities and collaborate.
MATHEMATICS 63

--- Page 66 ---
ALGEBRA 1 GEOMETRY
MTH151–Semester 1 MTH152–Semester 2 MTH251–Semester 1 MTH252–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10 Full Year Open to: 9-10 Full Year
Prerequisite: Completion and proficiency in Common Core Prerequisite: Algebra 1 Credit: College Prep
State Standards Mathematics Grade 8 (CCSSM 8)
Geometry (MTH251/252) helps students develop proficiency
Credit: College prep
in deductive reasoning and geometric thinking. Students will
Algebra 1 (MTH151/152) helps students develop proficiency
rely on exploration, conjecture, deduction, justification and
in algebraic thinking. Students will explore overarching ideas
abstraction to strengthen their reasoning skills. Geometric
of patterns of change (constant, linear and multiplicative),
thinking is supported by exploring the idea of measures
mathematical representations (verbal, algebraic, graphical and
(geometric magnitudes, lengths, areas and volumes),
numeric), models (real-world scenarios in and out of context)
transformations (effects on congruence, scaling and symmetry
and solutions (that validate equalities/inequalities). Creating
on geometric properties) and composition (the role simple
equivalence through strategic and purposeful manipulation
objects play in constructing and deconstructing complex
of algebraic forms will support students’ procedural fluency.
objects). This course leverages algebra to explore the
Conceptual understanding is developed by creating and
properties of triangles, quadrilaterals, polygons, circles,
connecting representations when exploring linear, exponential
right triangle trigonometry and conic sections. Working
and quadratic functions. Students will begin to explain and
with 2D objects and 3D solids in kinesthetic and digital
perform transformations on these functions. This course also
environments strengthens students’ spatial reasoning.
develops students’ statistical literacy through the descriptive
Communicating understanding leans on writing explanations
and analytic critique of data. Successfully completing this
and justifying reasoning using informal and formal proof
course will prepare students for Geometry (MTH251/252).
structures. Focusing on terminology, notation and clarity in
Geometry AB/BC (MTH271/272) is an option with consistently
writing helps prepare students for future studies. Successfully
demonstrated proficiency in all the course skills of Algebra 1.
completing Geometry (MTH251/252) will prepare students for
Algebra 2 (MTH351/352). Algebra 2 AB/BC (MTH171/172) is an
option with consistently demonstrated proficiency in all the
course skills of Geometry (MTH251/252).
MTH271–Semester 1 MTH272–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10 Full Year
Prerequisite: Algebra 1 Credit: COLLEGE PREP
Geometry AB/BC (MTH271/272) attends to all the learning
outcomes of Geometry (MTH251/252). The topics above will
be extended, and students will routinely apply prior learning
to unique, non-routine and novel contexts. The course
design emphasizes students’ growth in making connections
and transferring knowledge between units of study while
extending their learning in preparation for future college-level
experiences in high school. Successfully completing Geometry
AB/BC (MTH271/272) will prepare students for Algebra 2
(MTH351/352) and Algebra 2 AB/BC (MTH171/172).
64 MATHEMATICS

--- Page 67 ---
ALGEBRA 2 PRECALCULUS
MTH351–Semester 1 MTH352–Semester 2 MTH451–Semester 1 MTH452–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11 Full Year Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Geometry or Geometry AB/BC Prerequisite: Algebra 2 or Algebra 2 AB/BC
Credit: College Prep Credit: College PREP
Algebra 2 (MTH351/352) builds upon students’ prior Precalculus (MTH451/452) represents students’ third
experiences in geometric relationships and deductive course focused on algebraic thinking. Specifically, this
reasoning to deepen students’ fluency with algebraic thinking. course provides students with a lens to understand the
Overarching ideas from Algebra 1 around patterns of change, interconnectedness of algebraic, geometric and trigonometric
mathematical representations, models and solutions are relationships. The overarching ideas from previous courses
further extended in scope and depth. Students’ prior exposure will continue to be extended in scope and depth. Students
to linear relationships will be strengthened. Students will will further understand complex numbers, extraneous
delve deeper into understanding the value of non-real and feasible solutions, graphical and algebraic limits and
imaginary numbers, inverse operations and overlapping function properties (even/odd, symmetry). Skills developed
transformations of previously studied linear, quadratic in prior courses will be further applied to studying piecewise,
and exponential functions. These skills will be applied to inverse, trigonometric identities and functions and conic
understand the characteristics of absolute, polynomial, sections. Successfully completing Precalculus (MTH451/452)
rational, exponential, logarithmic and trigonometric will prepare students for AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412).
functions. Students’ mathematical reasoning skills will be AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) is not an option. AP Statistics
further strengthened in verbal and written forms. Successfully (MTH461/462), Data Science (MTH481/482) and Mathematical
completing Algebra 2 (MTH351/352) will prepare students for Modeling and Design (MTH431/432) are also options (with the
Advanced Mathematical Decision Making (MTH441/442), latter two being non-AP experiences).
Data Science (MTH481/482) and Precalculus (MTH451/452).
MTH171–Semester 1 MTH172–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11 Full Year
Prerequisite: Geometry AB/BC Credit: COLLEGE PREP
Algebra 2 AB/BC (MTH171/172) attends to all the learning
outcomes of Algebra 2 (MTH351/352). The topics above will
be extended, and students will routinely apply prior learning
to unique, non-routine and novel contexts. The course
design emphasizes students’ growth in making connections
and transferring knowledge between units of study while
extending their learning in preparation for future college-level
experiences in high school. Successfully completing
Algebra 2 AB/BC (MTH171/172) will prepare students for
AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412) and Precalculus (MTH451/452).
AP Precalculus BC (MTH421/422) is an option with consistently
demonstrated proficiency in all the course skills of Algebra 2
AB/BC (MTH171/172).
MATHEMATICS 65

--- Page 68 ---
AP PRECALCULUS MTH421–Semester 1 MTH422–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
MTH411–Semester 1 MTH412–Semester 2
Prerequisite: Algebra 2 AB/BC Credit: Honors
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: PRECALCULUS OR ALGEBRA 2 AB/BC AP Precalculus BC (MTH421/422) is aligned with the
Credit: Honors College Board’s expectations to prepare students for future
AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412) is aligned with the studies in calculus. The course design prepares students
College Board’s expectations to prepare students for future for the College Board AP Precalculus Exam.
studies in calculus. The course design prepares students
This course is ideal for students preparing to complete
for the College Board AP Precalculus Exam. This course is
two semesters of college calculus in high school or enroll
ideal for students preparing to complete one semester of
in calculus after graduation. This course attends to all the
college calculus in high school or enroll in calculus after
learning outcomes of AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412),
graduation. This course represents students’ third course
as well as functions involving parameters, vectors and
in algebraic thinking and extends students’ previous
matrices. Students will routinely apply prior learning to
understanding of polynomial, rational, exponential,
unique, non-routine and novel contexts. The course design
logarithmic, trigonometric and polar functions. Learning
emphasizes students’ growth in making connections and
to model real-world data, connect representations, master
transferring knowledge between units of study while
symbolic manipulations and apply functions to model
extending their learning in preparation for taking calculus
dynamic change will prepare students for the future study
in high school. As required by the College Board, please
of calculus. As required by the College Board, please note
note that this course will appear as AP Precalculus on the
that this course will appear as AP Precalculus on the
student’s transcript.
student’s transcript.
Sophomore and Junior Students: Successfully completing
Sophomore and Junior Students: Successfully completing
this course will prepare students to take AP Calculus AB
this course with consistently demonstrated proficiency
(MTH471/472), AP Calculus BC (MTH491/492) and AP Statistics
in all the course skills will prepare students to take
(MTH461/462). Students may also elect to take Mathematical
AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) and AP Statistics (MTH461/462).
Modeling and Design (MTH431/432) or Data Science
Students may also elect to take Mathematical Modeling
(MTH481/482) as non-AP course options.
and Design (MTH431/432) or Data Science (MTH481/482) as
Senior Students: Successfully completing this course will
non-AP course options. AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412) is
prepare students to take calculus or another at-level math
not appropriate for students seeking to take AP Calculus BC
course upon entering college. At some institutions, college
(MTH491/492).
credit via the AP Precalculus Exam may fulfill college math
Senior Students: Successfully completing this course will
requirements or serve as a tool to guide college math and
prepare students to take calculus or another at-level math
science course placements.
course upon entering college. At some institutions, college
credit via the AP Precalculus Exam may fulfill college math
requirements or serve as a tool to guide college math and
science course placements.
66 MATHEMATICS

--- Page 69 ---
MATHEMATICAL MODELING AND DESIGN ADVANCED MATHEMATICAL DECISION MAKING
MTH431–Semester 1 MTH432–Semester 2 MTH441–Semester 1 MTH442–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year Open to: 12 Full Year
Prerequisite: ANY PRECALCULUS COURSE Prerequisite: Algebra 2 Credit: College Prep
Credit: College Prep
Advanced Mathematical Decision Making (MTH441/442)
Mathematical Modeling and Design (MTH431/432) is a is a capstone non-AP course that prepares students for
non-AP introductory study in mathematical modeling and post-secondary workforce opportunities and non-STEM
design thinking. Modeling is quantifying and understanding college majors by strengthening quantitative, collaborative
real-world scenarios and phenomena to make informed and communication skills. Students will develop quantitative
decisions that help improve the conditions defined within literacy with an emphasis on numeracy (quantities, rates,
the scenarios. Students will build on prior mathematics estimation, the reasonableness of results, probability,
knowledge and applications of new skills (stochastic combinatorics, etc.), algebraic thinking (ratios, proportions,
methods, statistical models, numerical analysis, graph numeric operations, algebraic operations, etc.) and modeling
theory, digital simulations, etc.). These will be applied to (functions, data summaries, analysis, decision making,
represent real-world situations using appropriate modeling justification, etc.). Students will be exposed to real-world
technology. Productive collaboration and effective written and contexts (finance, statistics, networks) and apply their learning
presentational communication will be emphasized. Students to real life experiences and future workforce opportunities.
will explore overarching ideas of problem posing, assumption Cooperative groups are central to helping students understand
audits, strategic selection of mathematical algorithms and learning outcomes and completing class presentations and
procedures, result analysis and feasibility, and continuous projects. This course is closed to students who have completed
iteration. As a capstone project, students will design and Precalculus (MTH451/452) or any AP mathematics coursework.
successively improve a mathematical model to address a
Qualifying senior students who meet College of Lake County
self-selected “problem of interest.”
parameters will earn direct placement into a post-secondary
After completing this course, students may be interested credit-bearing mathematics course at Illinois community
in exploring descriptive and analytic methods of statistics colleges and some Illinois four-year universities without a
(AP Statistics MTH461/462) and data management and college math placement test. See your school counselor for
visualizations (Data Science MTH481/482). details.
DATA SCIENCE AP STATISTICS
MTH481–Semester 1 MTH482–Semester 2 MTH461–Semester 1 MTH462–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Algebra 2 or Algebra 2 AB/BC Prerequisite: Completion of Precalculus or
Credit: College Prep completion/concurrent enrollment in AP Precalculus
Credit: Honors
Data Science (MTH481/482) is an emerging field focused
on formulating relevant questions and gathering, managing AP Statistics (MTH461/462) is a full-year course designed
and analyzing data to propose practical solutions. In this to be the equivalent of a first-semester college-level
non-AP introductory course, students will explore the tools non-calculus-based statistics course. This course explores
of descriptive, diagnostic, and predictive data analysis and variation and distribution, patterns and uncertainty, and
data presentation. Students will work independently and data-based predictions, decisions and conclusions. These
collaboratively with applications of the data science cycle in skills are widely applicable to various Science, Technology,
real-world scenarios and use written and visual presentations Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines and the
to communicate their analysis and reasoning. Topics of study of business, social sciences and data analytics. In this
study will include data analysis, sampling, data visualization, introductory course, students develop statistical literacy
correlation/causation, bias and uncertainty, probability, by exploring data (describing patterns and departures from
modeling with data, constructing and evaluating data-based patterns), sampling and experimentation (planning and
arguments, and comprehending the societal impact of data. conducting a statistical study), anticipating patterns (exploring
random phenomena using probability and simulation) and
After completing this course, students may be interested
statistical inference (estimating population parameters and
in exploring descriptive and analytic methods of statistics
testing hypotheses).
(AP Statistics MTH461/462), and modeling and simulations
(Mathematical Modeling and Design MTH431/432). After completing this course, students may be interested in
exploring modeling and simulations (Mathematical Modeling
and Design MTH431/432) and data management and
visualizations (Data Science MTH481/482). The course design
prepares students for the College Board AP Statistics Exam.
MATHEMATICS 67

--- Page 70 ---
AP CALCULUS AB COLLEGE MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS
MTH471–Semester 1 MTH472–Semester 2 MTH591–Semester 1 ONLY
Open to: 11-12 Full Year Open to: 11-12 ONE SEMESTER
Prerequisite: ANY AP PRECALCULUS COURSE Prerequisite: AP Calculus BC Credit: Honors
Credit: Honors
College Multivariable Calculus (MTH591) is a one-semester
AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) is a full-year capstone course capstone course designed to be equivalent to a third-semester
designed to be the equivalent of the first semester of college college calculus. The distinctive focus of this course is the
calculus. Calculus focuses on the study of rates of change, attention to applying the tools of calculus to multidimensional
limits and the analysis of functions. It is widely applicable to space, whereas previous coursework limited students to
various Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics one- or two-dimensional experiences. This introductory
(STEM) disciplines. Calculus is also used to understand course exposes students to curves, surfaces, vector fields,
dynamic phenomena in business, finance and the social partial derivatives, advanced integrals (line, multi-variable,
sciences. AP Calculus AB focuses on connecting mathematical surface), curl and divergence. Students who successfully
representations (verbal, graphical, algebraic and numeric) so demonstrate the complete proficiencies of the course may
that relationships among topics of study are elucidated. In seek to petition future college/university programs for course
addition, students will apply prior skills in algebraic reasoning credits or waivers. A current syllabus will be provided. This
to complex problems presented in bare and real-world course is not affiliated with a dual-credit or articulated
contexts. Students will also apply and strengthen skills around credit program.
mathematical justification (reasoning) and communication
in written form. AP Calculus AB focuses on differential and
COLLEGE LINEAR ALGEBRA
integral calculus. The course design prepares students for
MTH592–Semester 2 only
the College Board AP Calculus AB Exam. AP Calculus AB
Open to: 11-12 one semester
(MTH471/472) is not appropriate for students seeking to take Prerequisite: AP Calculus BC Credit: Honors
AP Calculus BC (MTH491/492).
College Linear Algebra (MTH592) is a one-semester capstone
college-level course that applies matrix and linear algebra
AP CALCULUS BC techniques to model and analyze phenomena presented in
MTH491–Semester 1 MTH492–Semester 2 concrete and abstract settings. The study of linear algebra
Open to: 11-12 Full Year has valuable applications within the computational, physical
Prerequisite: AP Precalculus BC
and social sciences. Numeric, computational and estimation
Credit: Honors
techniques will be used to arrive at empirical and theoretical
AP Calculus BC (MTH491/492) attends to all the learning
conclusions that support students’ understanding of matrix
outcomes of AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) and is a full-year
properties and operations. Mathematical reasoning will be
capstone course designed to be the equivalent of the first
strengthened through the writing of formal and informal
and second semesters of college calculus. In addition, this
proofs. Topics of study include a system of equations,
course extends the content and skills of AP Calculus AB to
matrix operations, determinants, inverses, vector spaces,
parametrically defined curves, polar curves and vector-valued
inner product spaces, orthogonality, linear transformations,
functions, develops additional integration techniques and
eigenvalues, eigenvectors, matrix diagonalization and
applications, and explores sequences and series. The course
quadratic forms. The course emphasizes skills in reading,
design prepares students for the College Board AP Calculus
writing and communicating mathematics verbally and
BC Exam. The course is closed to students who have not
analytically. Students who successfully demonstrate the
completed AP Precalculus BC. Successfully completing this
complete proficiencies of the course may seek to petition
course will prepare students for a college-level experience in
future college/university programs for course credits or
College Multivariable Calculus (MTH591) and College Linear
waivers. A current syllabus will be provided. This course is not
Algebra (MTH592).
affiliated with a dual-credit or articulated credit program.
68 MATHEMATICS

--- Tables on Page 70 ---
Table 1:
68 MATHEMATICS | 

--- Page 71 ---
MULTILINGUAL LEARNING DIVISION SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT
language Learning AND ELD ONLINE:
www.d125.org/academics/academic-divisions/
JUSTIN FISK, DIRECTOR | JUSFISK@D125.ORG | 847-415-4701 Multilingual-learning-elD
Language Learning Department
English Language Development Department
Multilingual Learning: Your Key to the World —Opening Doors. Opening Minds.
To meet the aims and purpose of multilingual learning instruction, it is recommended that students take two
to five years of a language. Many colleges and universities require a two- to four-year sequence in one language.
A placement exam must be taken by all incoming freshmen and transfer students who have prior experience in
Spanish, French, German, Mandarin Chinese, Hebrew or Latin. By meeting proficiency standards in the placement
exam, the student will be placed in the appropriate second year course.
Students who have developed proficiency in a language through life experience, rather than through formal
study, may be placed by examination into the most appropriate language course for their skill level. However,
no transcript credit for earlier courses in that language will be awarded.
Prior credit approval from the Multilingual Learning Director is needed before enrolling in courses for
external credit. Please refer to the “External Credits” section of the coursebook.
Language Learning courses satisfy the graduation requirement for elective credits.
MULTILINGUAL LEARNING 69

--- Page 72 ---
LANGUAGE LEARNING COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
FRENCH COURSES GERMAN COURSES HEBREW COURSES LATIN COURSES
French 1 German 1 Hebrew 1 Latin 1
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
FRE101/FRE102 GRE101/GRE102 HBR101/HBR102 LAT101/LAT102
French 2 German 2 Hebrew 2 Latin 2
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
FRE211/FRE212 GRE211/GRE212 HBR211/HBR212 LAT211/LA212
French 3 German 3 Hebrew 3 Latin 3
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
FRE311/FRE312 GRE311/GRE312 HBR311/HBR312 LAT311/LAT312
AP German Language
AP French Language Hebrew 4 AP Latin
and Culture
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course
FRE601/FRE602 HBR411/HBR412 LAT621/LAT622
GRE601/GRE602
70 MULTILINGUAL LEARNING—LANGUAGE LEARNING

--- Tables on Page 72 ---
Table 1:
 |  |  |  | 
 | German 2
Full-Year Course
GRE211/GRE212 |  | Hebrew 2
Full-Year Course
HBR211/HBR212 | 
 | German 3
Full-Year Course
GRE311/GRE312 |  | Hebrew 3
Full-Year Course
HBR311/HBR312 | 
 |  |  |  | 

--- Page 73 ---
LANGUAGE LEARNING COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
MANDARIN CHINESE COURSES SPANISH COURSES
Mandarin
Spanish 1
Chinese 1
Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course
SPA101/SPA102
CHI101/CHI102
Mandarin
Spanish 2
Chinese 2
Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course
SPA201/SPA202
CHI211/CHI212
Intermediate
Mandarin Chinese 3 Spanish 3 Spanish 2-3
Mandarin Chinese
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
Language Arts
CHI311/CHI312 SPA301/SPA302 SPA211/SPA212
Full-Year Course
CHI351/CHI352
Intermediate Spanish
Mandarin Chinese 4 Spanish 4 Spanish 3-4
Language Arts
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course
CHI411/CHI412 SPA401/SPA402 SPA311/SPA312
SPA351/SPA352
AP Chinese Language Advanced Spanish AP Spanish Language
and Culture Conversation and and Culture
Full-Year Course Culture Full-Year Course
CHI601/CHI602 Full-Year Course SPA601/SP602
SPA511/SPA512
Chinese Literature, AP Spanish Literature
Media and Culture and Culture
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
CHI611/CHI612 SPA611/SPA612
MULTILINGUAL LEARNING—LANGUAGE LEARNING 71

--- Tables on Page 73 ---
Table 1:




--- Page 74 ---
LANGUAGE LEARNING FRENCH 3
DEPARTMENT DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY
FRE311–Semester 1 FRE312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: French 2 or passing the placement exam for
FRENCH 1 French 3 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
FRE101–Semester 1 FRE102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year This course is the second in the three-year accelerated
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep sequence that prepares students for AP French Language.
Students begin to develop their competence in French across Students continue to develop their competence in French
three modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational across the three modes of communication in the context
and interpretative. They will explore the language in the of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments in
context of six AP themes: Global Challenges, Science and the interpersonal and presentational modes (speaking and
Technology, Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, writing) provide the students the opportunity to use French
Families and Communities and Beauty and Aesthetics. independently in familiar contexts, with the increasing ability
Performance-based assessments in the presentational and to use the language in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive
interpersonal modes (speaking and writing) provide the listening and reading tasks are focused on both literal
students the opportunity to use the language in practiced, comprehension and inferential interpretation. Throughout
familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks are the course, students continue to explore the cultures of
focused on the acquisition and recognition of basic stated the French-speaking world in new contexts. In this course,
information in the target language. Additionally, students students also read authentic literature including poems, short
explore the cultures of the French-speaking world, making stories and excerpts from novels. Communication in class
comparisons and connections with their own experiences. (teacher-student and/or student-student) is entirely in French.
Communication in class (teacher-student and/or student-
student) is primarily in French. AP FRENCH LANGUAGE
FRE601–Semester 1 FRE602–Semester 2
FRENCH 2 Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: French 3 or passing the placement exam for
FRE211–Semester 1 FRE212–Semester 2
AP French Language and approval of director
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Credit: honors
Prerequisite: French 1 or passing the placement exam for
French 2 and approval of director Students continue to work to develop their competence across
Credit: Accelerated the three modes of communication in the context of the six
This course is the first in the three-year accelerated AP themes, as they simultaneously prepare for the AP French
sequence that prepares students for AP French Language. Language and Culture exam. Performance-based assessments
Students continue to develop their competence in French (speaking and writing) provide the students the opportunity
across the three modes of communication in the context of to use the language independently in unfamiliar contexts.
the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments in the Interpretive listening and reading tasks involve authentic
interpersonal and presentational modes (speaking and sources designed for native speakers and are focused on
writing) provide the students the opportunity to use the both literal comprehension and inferential interpretation.
language in practiced, familiar contexts as well as occasional, A variety of authentic print, audio and video materials
unfamiliar topics with increasing independence. Interpretive provide the basis for exploration of the cultures of the
listening and reading is focused on the recognition of key French-speaking world. Tasks involve students analyzing
details and making inferences about the content of authentic and making comparisons with their own cultural products,
sources. Students continue to explore the cultures of the practices and perspectives. Communication in class
French-speaking world in new contexts. Communication in (teacher-student and/or student-student) is entirely in French.
class (teacher-student and/or student-student) is primarily Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to take
in French. the AP French Language and Culture exam in May.
72 LANGUAGE LEARNING—FRENCH

--- Page 75 ---
GERMAN 1 GERMAN 3
GRE101–Semester 1 GRE102–Semester 2 DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year GRE311–Semester 1 GRE312–Semester 2
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
German 1 is an introduction to German language and culture. Prerequisite: German 2 or passing the placement exam for
German 3 and approval of director
Students begin to develop their competence in German
Credit: Accelerated
across the three modes of communication: interpersonal,
This course, which moves at a faster pace than German 2, begins
presentational and interpretative in the context of the
preparation for the AP German Language and Culture Exam.
following AP themes: Contemporary Life and Personal and
Students continue to work to develop their competence
Public Identities. Performance-based assessments in the
in German across the three modes of communication
presentational and interpersonal modes provide the students
in the context of the six AP themes: Global Challenges,
the opportunity to use the language in practiced, familiar
Science and Technology, Contemporary Life, Personal and
contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks are focused
Public Identities, Families and Communities, and Beauty
on the acquisition and recognition of basic stated information
and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments in the
in the target language. By the end of the course, students will
presentational and interpersonal modes provide the students
be able to communicate in German in a basic way in familiar
the opportunity to use the language in familiar contexts
contexts. Moreover, they will be able to read and understand
independently. Additionally, authentic materials will expand
short stories in German. Additionally, students will explore the
their German knowledge. Interpretive listening and reading
target culture, make comparisons and connections with their
tasks are focused on literal comprehension with increasing
own experiences and come to view language learning as a
emphasis on inferential interpretation. Students continue to
lifelong pursuit. The expectation is that the communication
explore the target culture in new contexts. The expectation
in the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student)
is that the communication in the classroom (teacher-student
take place primarily in German. This is the first course in
and/or student-student) take place primarily in German. This
a four course sequence that prepares students for
is the third course in a four course sequence that prepares
AP German Language and Culture.
students for AP German Language and Culture.
GERMAN 2
AP GERMAN LANGUAGE AND CULTURE
GRE211–Semester 1 GRE212–Semester 2
GRE601–Semester 1 GRE602–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: German 1 or passing the placement exam for
German 2 and approval of director Prerequisite: German 3 or passing the placement exam for
AP German and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Credit: honors
Students continue to work to develop their competence in
This AP German course is designed for motivated students
German across the three modes of communication in the
who have successfully finished three years of German and
context of the following AP themes: Contemporary Life,
who are interested in taking a higher level German course.
Families and Communities and Science and Technology.
It is aimed to prepare students who are interested in taking
Performance-based assessments in the presentational and
the AP German Language and Culture exam and/or in
interpersonal modes provide the students the opportunity
furthering their study in the German language and culture.
to use the language in practiced, familiar contexts with
Special emphasis is placed on the use of authentic source
increasing independence. Moreover, they will be able to read
materials related to culture and current events and the
and understand more complex stories in German. Interpretive
integration of language skills. Specific work includes:
listening and reading are focused on the acquisition and
analysis of articles and literature, formal and informal oral
recognition of key details in the target language. Students
presentations, formal and informal writings, a variety of
continue to explore the target culture in new contexts. The
audios/videos related to conversations, announcements,
expectation is that the communication in the classroom
news reports or academic or cultural topics related to
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place primarily
the German-speaking world. The expectation is that all
in German. This is the second course in a four course sequence
communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or
that prepares students for AP German Language and Culture.
student-student) take place in German. Students who enroll
in this course will be prepared to take the AP German
Language and Culture exam in May.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—GERMAN 73

--- Page 76 ---
HEBREW 1 HEBREW 3
HBR101–Semester 1 HBR102–Semester 2 HBR311–Semester 1 HBR312–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: Hebrew 2 or passing the placement exam for
Hebrew 3 and approval of director
Hebrew 1 is an introduction to the Hebrew language and
Credit: Accelerated
Israeli culture. Students develop their competencies across
Students continue to develop their competence in Hebrew
three modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational
across the three modes of communication: interpersonal,
and interpretative. Students become comfortable reading
presentational and interpretive in a near-immersion
the print form of the Hebrew alphabet that appears in books
environment. Students also continue to learn in the context of
and also learn the script form for writing. The course explores
the six AP themes: Global Challenges, Science and Technology,
the language in the context of the six AP themes: Global
Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, Families
Challenges, Science and Technology, Contemporary Life,
and Communities and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-
Personal and Public Identities, Families and Communities
based assessments provide us the opportunity to use the
and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments
language independently in familiar contexts. Interpretive
in the interpersonal, presentational and interpretive modes
listening and reading activities are focused on the ability to
provides students with the opportunity to use the language
interpret and infer meaning in Hebrew. Practice is provided
in practiced, familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and
regularly, both within the classroom and at home. The
reading tasks focus on the acquisition and recognition of
expectation is that the communication in the classroom
basic stated information in Hebrew. The expectation is that
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place primarily
the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or
in Hebrew. Students continue to explore Israeli culture
student-student) take place primarily in Hebrew. Additionally,
through a variety of contexts and authentic materials, such as
students explore Israeli culture, make comparisons and
short stories, essays, poems, songs, news reports, advertising,
connections with their own experiences and come to view
art, video clips and movies from Israel.
language learning as a lifelong pursuit.
HEBREW 4
HEBREW 2
HBR411–Semester 1 HBR412–Semester 2
HBR211–Semester 1 HBR212–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Hebrew 3 or passing the placement exam for
Prerequisite: Hebrew 1 or passing the placement exam for Hebrew 4 and approval of director
Hebrew 2 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Credit: Accelerated
Students develop their competence in Hebrew and engage
Students continue to develop their competence in Hebrew
in higher-level reading, writing, listening and speaking
across the three modes of communication: interpersonal,
activities that align with the interpersonal, presentational
presentational and interpretive. Students also continue to
and interpretive modes of communication in an immersion
learn in the context of the six AP themes: Global Challenges;
environment. Students continue to learn in the context of the
Science and Technology; Contemporary Life; Personal and
six AP themes: Global Challenges, Science and Technology,
Public Identities, Families and Communities and Beauty and
Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, Families
Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments provide the
and Communities and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-
opportunity to use the language in practiced, familiar contexts
based assessments provide the opportunity to use the
with increasing independence. Interpretive listening and
language independently even in unfamiliar contexts.
reading activities are focused on the acquisition and
Interpretive listening and reading activities are focused on
recognition of key details in Hebrew. The expectation is that
both literal comprehension and inferential interpretation
the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or
of the language. In Hebrew 4, classroom discussions and
student-student) take place primarily in Hebrew. Additionally,
debates are led by the students. The expectation is that the
students explore Israeli culture through a variety of contexts
communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or
and authentic materials, such as short stories, essays, poems,
student-student) take place primarily in Hebrew. Israeli culture
songs, news reports, advertising and video clips from Israel.
continues to be explored through a variety of contexts and
authentic materials, such as short stories, essays, poems,
songs, print and broadcast news reports, advertising, art,
video-clips, popular TV sitcoms and movies from Israel.
74 LANGUAGE LEARNING— HEBREW

--- Page 77 ---
LATIN 1 AP LATIN
LAT101–Semester 1 LAT102–Semester 2 DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year LAT621–Semester 1 LAT622–Semester 2
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Latin 1 focuses on learning the basics of Latin grammar, syntax Prerequisite: Latin 3 and approval of director
Credit: honors
and vocabulary. This course is designed to enable students to
read materials in Latin with ease and understanding and to Students will complete preparation for the AP Latin exam.
write original Latin sentences employing the vocabulary and Students will continue to refine reading, writing, listening
grammatical structures learned. Additionally, basic prefixes, and speaking skills. Training in translation, meter and poetic
suffixes and roots of vocabulary words and word families will devices involved in the study of major Latin works of literature
be studied. This class will also cover topics in Roman history, will be stressed. The students will become more comfortable
mythology and culture. in the reading and interpretation of Vergil’s Aeneid and
Caesar’s De Bello Gallico. To achieve this endeavor, both the
cultural component (history, politics, social structure and art)
LATIN 2
and the linguistic aspect (grammar, vocabulary and structure)
LAT211–Semester 1 LAT212–Semester 2
will be emphasized. Students proceeding to AP Latin will be
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
provided with summer readings by the classroom instructor.
Prerequisite: Latin 1 or passing the placement exam for
Latin 2 and approval of director Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to take
Credit: Accelerated
the AP Latin exam in May.
Latin 2 focuses on refining students’ knowledge of grammar
and syntax from Latin 1 in order to facilitate the translation
MANDARIN CHINESE 1
of more complex passages. Readings will focus on daily life in
CHI101–Semester 1 CHI102–Semester 2
Rome, mythology and the heroic ideal. In addition, students
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
will complete a semester of vocabulary study based on Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Latin roots, which is designed to increase students’ English
Mandarin Chinese 1 is an introduction to Chinese language
vocabulary. Students will also study prescription writing in
and culture. It is designed for students who are not heritage/
Latin abbreviations, Latin in modern law and Latin in medicine
native speakers*. Students begin to develop their competence
and anatomy.
in Chinese across the three modes of communication:
interpersonal, presentational and interpretative in the
LATIN 3 context of the following global themes: Contemporary Life,
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY Personal and Public Identities, Families and Communities
LAT311–Semester 1 LAT312–Semester 2 and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year in the presentational and interpersonal modes provide the
Prerequisite: Latin 2 or passing the placement exam for
students the opportunity to use the language in practiced,
Latin 3 and approval of director
familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks are
Credit: Accelerated
focused on the acquisition and recognition of basic stated
Students will explore various selections of Latin literature.
information in the target language. By the end of the course,
Students will continue to refine their skills in literal translation,
students will be able to communicate in Mandarin (the spoken
sight translation, scansion and literary analysis both in the
language) and Hanzi (the written language) in a basic way in
target language and in English in order to facilitate greater
familiar contexts. Additionally, students explore the target
fluency in the reading of Latin literature. Authors that will be
culture, make comparisons and connections with their own
studied include Ovid, Catullus, Cicero, Plautus and Caesar.
experiences and come to view language learning as a lifelong
Caesar is studied in order to provide a bridge to advanced
pursuit. The expectation is that the communication in the
placement in fourth year.
classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student) take
place primarily in Mandarin.
* There is a placement exam for heritage students or
students with prior knowledge that includes reading,
writing and a short interview. The results from the exam
will determine the appropriate course for the student.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—LATIN AND MANDARIN CHINESE 75

--- Page 78 ---
MANDARIN CHINESE 2 INTERMEDIATE MANDARIN CHINESE LANGUAGE ARTS
CHI211–Semester 1 CHI212–Semester 2 CHI351-SEMESTER 1 CHI352-SEMESTER 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year OPEN TO: 9-10-11-12 FULL YEAR
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 1 or passing the placement Prerequisite: Intermediate or higher proficiency in the domains
exam for Mandarin Chinese 2 and approval of director of speaking and listening as demonstrated on Mandarin
Credit: Accelerated Chinese language proficiency assessment (e.g., AAPPL), teacher
recommendation, or director approval
In this course, students continue to work to develop
Credit: Accelerated
their competence in Chinese across the three modes of
This course is designed specifically for students with lived
communication in the context of the following AP themes:
Mandarin Chinese language experience, either from prior
Contemporary Life, Families and Communities, Beauty
schooling in a Chinese-speaking country or as native/heritage
and Aesthetics and Science and Technology. Performance-
speakers of Chinese. Students will develop their literacy
based assessments in the presentational and interpersonal
skills in Chinese as they explore literature from the Chinese-
modes provide the students the opportunity to use the
speaking world and engage in focused development of
language in practiced, familiar contexts with increasing
reading and writing skills. While special focus will be placed
independence. Interpretive listening and reading are focused
on developing foundational literacy skills (e.g., Mandarin
on the acquisition and recognition of key details in the target
character decoding and character writing), students will
language. Students continue to explore the target culture in
also develop critical thinking and oracy skills in Chinese as
new contexts. The expectation is that the communication in
they collaboratively explore topics related to current events,
the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student) take
culture and media.
place primarily in Mandarin.
MANDARIN CHINESE 4
MANDARIN CHINESE 3
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH NORTH CENTRAL COLLEGE
CHI311–Semester 1 CHI312–Semester 2
CHI411–Semester 1 CHI412–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 2 or passing the placement
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 3 or passing the placement
exam for Mandarin Chinese 3 and approval of director
exam for Mandarin Chinese 4 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Credit: Accelerated
This course requires students to engage in interpersonal,
Students continue to work to develop their competence in
presentational and interpretive tasks at more advanced
Mandarin Chinese across the three modes of communication
proficiency levels. Students continue to work to develop
in the context of the six AP themes. Performance-based
their competence in Chinese across the three modes
assessments provide the students opportunity to use the
of communication in the context of the six AP themes.
language independently in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive
Performance-based assessments in the presentational and
listening and reading tasks are focused on both literal and
interpersonal modes provide the students the opportunity
comprehension and inferential interpretation. Practice is
to use the language in familiar contexts independently.
provided regularly, both within the classroom and at home.
Interpretive listening and reading tasks are focused on literal
Cultural information and comparisons are drawn from
comprehension with increasing emphasis on inferential
authentic print, literary works and class discussion. Students
interpretation. Students continue to explore the target culture
will participate in class debates and facilitate classroom
in new contexts. The expectation is that the communication
discussion through their own student-led presentation. The
in the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student)
expectation is that the communication in the classroom take
take place primarily in Mandarin.
place primarily in Chinese. This course begins preparation for
the AP Chinese Language and Culture exam.
76 LANGUAGE LEARNING—MANDARIN CHINESE

--- Page 79 ---
AP CHINESE LANGUAGE AND CULTURE SPANISH 1
CHI601–Semester 1 CHI602–Semester 2 SPA101–Semester 1 SPA102–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 4, THREE YEARS OF HIGH SCHOOL Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
MANDARIN STUDY, or passing the placement exam for AP Chinese
Students begin to develop their competence in Spanish
Language and Culture and approval of director
Credit: honors across three modes of communication: interpersonal,
This course is designed to prepare students for the presentational and interpretative. They will explore the
AP Chinese Language and Culture exam, i.e. a level language in the context of the six AP themes: Global
comparable to fourth semester (or equivalent) college/ Challenges, Science and Technology, Contemporary Life,
university courses in Mandarin Chinese. The course focuses Personal and Public Identities, Families and Communities,
on language proficiency while dealing with level- and and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments
age-appropriate cultural content throughout the course. in the presentational and interpersonal modes provide the
Students engage in readings, conversation and composition students the opportunity to use the language in practiced,
and research projects. The expectation is that all familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks
communication in the classroom takes place in the target are focused on the acquisition and recognition of basic
language. By the end of the year, students will be able to stated information in the target language. Practice is
understand the spoken language formally (lectures, news, provided regularly, both within the classroom and at home.
etc.) and in conversation (dialogues…); to acquire vocabulary Additionally, students explore the target culture, make
and structures that enable students to understand, analyze comparisons and connections with their own experiences
contextualized materials (advertisement, posters, newspaper, and come to view language learning as a lifelong pursuit.
magazine articles, letters, etc.); to describe an event or activity The expectation is that the communication in the classroom
in a cohesive and coherent manner with linguistic accuracy; to (teacher-student and/or student-student) take place
write appropriately employing the organization, vocabulary primarily in Spanish.
and structure appropriate to the purpose of their writing
and to demonstrate cultural appropriateness through SPANISH 2
spoken and written discourse. SPA201–Semester 1 SPA202–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Spanish 1 or passing the placement exam for
CHINESE LITERATURE, MEDIA AND CULTURE
Spanish 2 and approval of director
CHI611–Semester 1 CHI612–Semester 2 Credit: College prep
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Students continue to work to develop their competence
Prerequisite: AP Chinese Language and Culture or
in Spanish across the three modes of communication
placement test
Credit: honors in the context of the six AP themes. Performance-based
Students continue to work to develop their competence in assessments provide the students the opportunity to use
Chinese across the three modes of communication within the the language in practiced, familiar contexts with increasing
context of critical analysis of literature and media, as well as a independence. Interpretive listening and reading are focused
close investigation of culture and social trends. Performance- on the acquisition and recognition of key details in the target
based assessments provide students the opportunity to language. Practice is provided regularly, both within the
use the language independently and collaboratively in both classroom and at home. Students continue to explore the
familiar and unfamiliar literary, media and cultural contexts. target culture in new contexts. The expectation is that the
Interpretive listening, viewing and reading tasks are focused communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or
on both literal comprehension and inferential interpretation student-student) take place primarily in Spanish.
of both familiar and unfamiliar pieces of literature, media
and culture. Practice is provided regularly, both within the
classroom and at home. Throughout the course, students
continue to explore the target culture as they are invited to
situate their own experiences within new contexts.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—MANDARIN CHINESE AND SPANISH 77

--- Page 80 ---
SPANISH 2-3 SPANISH 3-4
SPA211–Semester 1 SPA212–Semester 2 SPA311–Semester 1 SPA312–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Spanish 1 or passing the placement exam for Prerequisite: Spanish 2-3 or passing the placement exam for
Spanish 2-3 and approval of director Spanish 3-4 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated Credit: Accelerated
In comparison to Spanish 2, Spanish 2-3 has a faster pace and Students continue to work to develop their competence in
students are asked to engage in interpersonal, presentational Spanish across the three modes of communication in the
and interpretive tasks at more advanced proficiency levels. context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments
Students continue to work to develop their competence in provide the students the opportunity to use the language
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the independently in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive listening
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments and reading tasks are focused on both literal comprehension
provide the students the opportunity to use the language in and inferential interpretation. Practice is provided regularly,
practiced, familiar contexts as well as occasional unfamiliar both within the classroom and at home. Throughout the
topics with increasing independence. Interpretive listening course, students continue to explore the target culture in
and reading are focused on the acquisition and recognition new contexts. In comparison to the college prep sequence
of key details with emerging evidence of inference making in of courses, Spanish 3-4 accelerated has a faster pace and
the target language. Practice is provided regularly, both within students are asked to engage in interpersonal, presentational
the classroom and at home. Students continue to explore and interpretive tasks at more advanced proficiency levels.
the target culture in new contexts. In this course, students In this course, students also continue reading authentic
also begin reading poems and short stories by authors who literature including poems, short stories and plays. The
appear on the AP Spanish Literature and Culture reading list. expectation is that the communication in the classroom
The expectation is that the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student) take place
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place primarily in Spanish.
primarily in Spanish.
INTERMEDIATE SPANISH LANGUAGE ARTS
SPANISH 3 SPA351-SEMESTER 1 SPA352-SEMESTER 2
SPA301–Semester 1 SPA302–Semester 2 OPEN TO: 9-10-11-12 FULL YEAR
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year Prerequisite: Intermediate or higher proficiency as demonstrated
on Spanish language proficiency assessment (e.g., AAPPL), teacher
Prerequisite: Spanish 2 credit: College prep
recommendation, or director approval
Students continue to work to develop their competence in Credit: Accelerated
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the This course is designed specifically for students with lived
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments Spanish language experience, either from prior schooling in
provide the students the opportunity to use the language in a Spanish-speaking country or as native/heritage speakers
familiar contexts independently. Interpretive listening and of Spanish. Students will develop their literacy skills in
reading tasks are focused on literal comprehension with Spanish as they explore literature from the Spanish-speaking
increasing emphasis on inferential interpretation. Practice world and engage in focused development of writing skills.
is provided regularly, both within the classroom and at Additionally, students will develop critical thinking and oracy
home. Students continue to explore the target culture in skills in Spanish as they collaboratively explore topics related
new contexts. The expectation is that the communication to current events, culture and media.
in the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student)
take place primarily in Spanish.
78 LANGUAGE LEARNING—SPANISH

--- Page 81 ---
SPANISH 4 AP SPANISH LITERATURE AND CULTURE
SPA401–Semester 1 SPA402–Semester 2 SPA611–Semester 1 SPA612–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Spanish 3 credit: College prep Prerequisite: AP Spanish Language and Culture
Credit: honors
Students continue to work to develop their competence in
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the This course is designed to introduce students to the
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments formal study of Peninsular Spanish, Latin American and
provide the students the opportunity to use the language U.S. Hispanic literature. The course aims to develop students’
independently in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive listening critical reading and analytical writing skills in Spanish as well
and reading tasks are focused on both literal comprehension as their ability to make interdisciplinary connections and
and inferential interpretation. Practice is provided regularly, explore linguistic and cultural comparisons. This course will
both within the classroom and at home. Cultural information be conducted entirely in Spanish appropriate to this level and
and comparisons are drawn from authentic print, literary covers the entire official AP Spanish Literature and Culture
works and class discussion. Students will participate in reading list. Literary texts are grouped by themes and presented
classroom debates and facilitate classroom discussion in chronological order within each of the following themes:
through their own student-led presentation. Upon completion las sociedades en contacto, la construcción del género, el
of this course, students will be prepared to enter into tiempo y el espacio, las relaciones interpersonales, la dualidad
AP Spanish Language and Culture. The expectation is that del ser and la creación literaria. Students are expected to
the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or discuss literary texts and their different historical, sociocultural
student-student) take place primarily in Spanish. and geopolitical contexts in a variety of interactive oral and
written formats in Spanish. Students who enroll in this course
will be prepared to take the AP Spanish Literature and Culture
AP SPANISH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE
exam in May.
SPA601–Semester 1 SPA602–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: INTERMEDIATE SPANISH LANGUAGE ARTS, Spanish 4 ADVANCED SPANISH CONVERSATION AND CULTURE
or Spanish 3-4
SPA511–Semester 1 SPA512–Semester 2
Credit: honors
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
This course is designed to prepare students for the AP Spanish Prerequisite: Spanish 3-4, Spanish 4 or AP Spanish Language
Language and Culture exam and provides a transition to the and Culture
Credit: College prep
AP Spanish Literature and Culture course. Students continue
to work to develop their competence in Spanish across the Advanced conversation and culture builds upon the
three modes of communication: interpretive, interpersonal communicative focus in the presentational, interpretive and
and presentational, within the context of the six AP themes: interpersonal modes from prior coursework, but will uniquely
Families and Communities, Science and Technology, Global explore the language through a cultural lens. The aim of this
Challenges, Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, course is to present how the language manifests itself in
Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments various regions of the Spanish-speaking world through both
provide the students the opportunity to use the language historical and contemporary settings. Students who like to
independently in familiar and unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive travel or who are thinking about studying abroad in college
listening and reading tasks are focused on both literal will enjoy this course and the experience it will provide
comprehension and inferential interpretation. Practice is prior to graduation. In discovering Spanish throughout the
provided regularly, both within the classroom and at home. world, students will also engage in film studies, literature and
Cultural information and comparisons are drawn from a comprehensive review of grammar, all of which will prepare
authentic print and audio-visual sources, literary works and them for continued language study at the university level.
class discussion. Students will research a variety of cultural Teacher-student and/or student-student interactions
topics and facilitate discussion through their own student-led are conducted exclusively in Spanish.
presentations. The expectation is that the communication in
the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student)
take place in Spanish.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—SPANISH 79

--- Page 82 ---
ENGLISH LANGUAGE ELD COURSE OFFERINGS
DEVELOPMENT (ELD) WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
DEPARTMENT
THE STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL ENGLISH LANGUAGE
English Language
Current Events
Development (ELD) 1
DEVELOPMENT (ELD) PROGRAM IS PART OF THE One-Semester Course
Full-Year Course
ELD561 or ELD562
ELD161/ELD162
MULTILINGUAL LEARNING DIVISION AND IS DESIGNED TO
SUPPORT STUDENTS AT STEVENSON WHO ARE IDENTIFIED
AS MULTILINGUAL LEARNERS. THE GOALS OF THIS PROGRAM
ARE TO STRENGTHEN STUDENTS’ LITERACY AND ORACY
English Language
Development (ELD) 2
SKILLS IN ENGLISH AND TO EMPOWER STUDENTS TO
Full-Year Course
ELD261/ELD262
BECOME MULTILINGUAL AND MULTILITERATE BY SUSTAINING
STUDENTS’ ACADEMIC ENGAGEMENT WITH THEIR HOME
LANGUAGES. APPROPRIATE PLACEMENT OF STUDENTS IN
THE ELD PROGRAM IS DONE THROUGH STATE AND NATIONAL
English Language English Language
Development (ELD) 3 Development (ELD) 3
TESTING SCORES, HOME LANGUAGE SURVEYS, TEACHER
Language Literature
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
RECOMMENDATIONS AND THE COOPERATIVE EFFORTS
ELD361/ELD362 ELD371/ELD372
OF THE STUDENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT AND THE
ELD FACULTY IN THE MULTILINGUAL LEARNING DIVISION.
English Language
Development (ELD) 4
Full-Year Course
ELD461/ELD462
ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 1 ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 2
ELD161–Semester 1 ELD162–Semester 2 ELD261–Semester 1 ELD262–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: WIDA-screener/ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 1.0-1.9 Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/
Credit: College prep ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 2.0-2.9 or successful completion of ELD 1,
teacher recommendation or director approval.
This is a two-credit course for students in the ELD program
Credit: College prep
at the beginning level who are new to the English language
This is a two-credit course for students in the ELD program
or have emerging English vocabulary and communication
at the intermediate level. This course will meet two periods
skills. The course meets two periods each day. Students work
each day and instruction is entirely in English. Students will
on developing and expanding their vocabulary, grammar,
build on all four language domains (listening, speaking,
speaking, listening, reading and writing skills. Students
reading and writing) across thematic units. Their writing
will practice their writing skills in the context of the course
skills move beyond paragraph construction to composing,
readings and will start with basic sentence structures and end
revising and editing essays within various writing genres.
with essay writing. Speaking and listening will focus on proper
Speaking and listening is practiced and assessed as students
pronunciation as well as interpersonal and presentational
are expected to have conversational and presentational
communication.
English speaking skills.
80 MULTILINGUAL LEARNING—ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD)

--- Page 83 ---
ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 3 ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 4
LANGUAGE
ELD461–Semester 1 ELD462–Semester 2
ELD361–Semester 1 ELD362–Semester 2 Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/
Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/ ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 4.0-4.8 OR successful completion of
ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 3.0-3.9 or successful completion of ELD 3: Language and/or ELD 3: Literature, teacher recommendation
ELD 2, teacher recommendation or director approval or director approval.
Credit: College prep Credit: College prep
Note: May be taken concurrently with English Language Development This is an English course for students who are transitioning
(ELD) 3 Literature
out of the ELD program. Students are expected to produce
This is one of two courses available for students in the ELD work with ELD support similar to that of a student in a
program at the advanced level. This course may be taken Communication Arts English course. Students’ proficiencies
concurrently with English Language Development (ELD) 3 will advance in the areas of literary analysis, writing,
Literature (ELD371/372) or may be taken alone. Students will grammar, oral communication and research. Students will
leverage their own cultural and linguistic assets as they work explore literary works from their own cultural backgrounds
to expand their English language proficiency. In addition and experiences and use literature as a pathway to greater
to a focus on the development of advanced literacy skills, understanding of diverse perspectives and narratives.
including argumentative writing and literary analysis, students
will foster their listening and speaking skills by participating in CURRENT EVENTS
discussions, debates and oral presentations.
ELD561–Semester 1 ELD562–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 3 Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
LITERATURE
This one-semester elective course is designed to develop
ELD371–Semester 1 ELD372–Semester 2 students’ academic, social and instructional language across
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
the five WIDA Standards (Social and Instructional Language,
Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/
ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 3.0-3.9 or successful completion of the Language of Language Arts, the Language of Mathematics,
ELD 2, teacher recommendation or director approval the Language of Science and the Language of Social Studies)
Credit: College prep
through discussion and guided written reflection around
Note: May be taken concurrently with English Language Development
current events and students’ own experiences. Special focus
(ELD) 3 Language
will not only be given to written, audio and visual sources
This is one of two courses available for students in the ELD that are connected with the WIDA Standards, but also to
program at the advanced level. This course may be taken students’ own cultural and linguistic experiences across
concurrently with English Language Development (ELD) 3 these standards. Additionally, added focus will be given
Language (ELD361/362) or may be taken alone. Students will to academic, social and instructional language for WIDA’s
leverage their own cultural and linguistic assets as they work five complementary strands (the Language of Music and
to expand their English language proficiency. Students will Performing Arts, the Language of Humanities, the Language
explore both fiction and nonfiction literature through both of Visual Arts, the Language of Health and Physical Education
common and independent reading tasks. Students will make and the Language of Technology and Engineering.) This
text-to-self connections as they engage in literary analysis and course may be repeated for credit.
argumentative writing, including multi-page process writing.
MULTILINGUAL LEARNING—ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 81

--- Page 84 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT PHYSICAL WELFARE ONLINE:
PHYSICAL WELFARE DIVISION www.d125.org/academics/physical-welfare
ABYGAIL AUSTIN, DIRECTOR | AAUSTIN@D125.ORG | 847-415-4229
Physical Education Department Health Education Department
The Division of Physical Welfare empowers students to Our curriculum offers diverse and engaging activities that:
become independent, self-reflective and healthy lifelong ■ Foster physical literacy
movers. We believe that understanding how to fuel both body
■ Promote health-related fitness
and mind is essential for personal growth and well-being. Our
programs emphasize the value of self and others, fostering a ■ Cultivate a mind-body connection
sense of belonging through healthy relationships and cultivating ■ Encourage critical thinking and self-reflection
strength and emotional resilience through movement.
■ Inspire lifelong engagement
Our courses are designed to inspire and equip students
■ Build community and leadership
with the knowledge and skills needed to pursue and plan for
lifelong wellness. Students learn to make healthy, responsible Students have the opportunity to choose activities that align
lifestyle decisions while engaging in activities that build with their interests, allowing them to further develop their
positive physical, social and emotional habits. knowledge and skills. We are committed to providing equal
opportunities for daily physical education to every student,
Beyond traditional physical and health education, our
regardless of their athletic ability or physical capabilities.
comprehensive curriculum empowers students to take
Individual needs and interests guide their Physical Education
ownership of their well-being. Through a movement-based
choices.
curriculum and comprehensive Health Education Programs,
students gain the essential knowledge and skills to become Physical Welfare courses required for graduation:
healthy, lifelong learners. ■ All students must be enrolled in a Physical Education
course
■ Health Education
82 PHYSICAL WELFARE

--- Page 85 ---
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HEALTH EDUCATION COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
PHYSICAL EDUCATION COURSES HEALTH EDUCATION COURSES
Freshman Alternative Physical
Foundational Education Health Education
One-Semester Course
Fitness Choice P.E. Full-Year Course
One-Semester Course PED111/PED112 PED201 or PED202
PED121 or PED122
Lifeguard Training Choice P.E. Adventure
and Certification Full-Year Course Education Applied Health
Semester 1 Course Only PED451/PED452 One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
PED501 Early Bird Option PED331 or PED332 PED231 or PED232
PED031/PED032
Alternative Physical Physical Education
Education Leadership Leadership Pool Leadership
Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course Training
PED41L/PED42L Full-Year Course PED71L/PED72L
PED61L/PED62L
Senior Leadership
Full-Year Course
PED81L/PED82L
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HEALTH EDUCATION 83

--- Page 86 ---
PHYSICAL EDUCATION FRESHMAN FOUNDATIONAL FITNESS CHOICE P.E.
PED121–Semester 1 PED122–Semester 2
Open to: 9 One Semester
THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OFFERS
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
A HEALTH-RELATED, MOVEMENT-BASED PROGRAM.
Freshman Foundational Fitness Choice P.E. is designed for
STUDENTS WILL ACQUIRE THE PRACTICAL EXPERIENCES students to learn to develop and maintain physical fitness in
a variety of self-selected activities. The course begins with the
AND KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED TO ESTABLISH A HEALTHY
Foundations of Fitness, where students learn how to develop
LIFESTYLE, BOTH AS AN ADOLESCENT AND AS A
and apply a personal fitness plan, how to perform basic lifting
MATURING ADULT. techniques and how to utilize a fitness center safely. Students
who are able to demonstrate safety in and around the water
EXCESSIVE ABSENTEEISM OR NON-PARTICIPATION MUST will choose activities in which they will participate and apply
their fitness plan. (Students needing additional support for
BE MADE UP. MAKE-UP CARDS ARE ISSUED TO STUDENTS
achieving swimming proficiency will participate in American
AND THEY CAN USE THE WEST FITNESS CENTER OR
Red Cross Learn to Swim lessons.)
FITNESS MEZZANINE DURING THEIR LUNCH HOUR OR
THE PWC AFTER SCHOOL FOR MAKE-UP CREDIT. ADVENTURE EDUCATION
PED331–Semester 1 PED332–Semester 2
MEDICAL EXCUSES ARE ACCEPTED FROM PARENTS/ Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: A Foundational Fitness class or any previous
GUARDIANS FOR UP TO THREE DAYS. EXCUSES OF LONGER
physical education course
Credit: College prep
DURATION MUST BE WRITTEN BY A PHYSICIAN. STUDENTS
Students in this course will participate in individual, partner
WITH PHYSICIANS’ NOTES WILL BE ACCOMMODATED IN AN
and team activities to work towards becoming better problem
ALTERNATIVE ACTIVITY. IF A PHYSICAL EDUCATION STUDENT
solvers and communicators, while learning to trust others and
IS ALSO A STUDENT ATHLETE, ANY MEDICAL RESTRICTIONS be trusted. Some units will require students to be in the pool.
Activities may include team building, outdoor games, biking,
IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION WILL ALSO AFFECT THEIR
archery, climbing/rappelling, kayaking and canoeing. Multiple
ATHLETIC PARTICIPATION.
credits may be earned for this course.
ALL CLASSES IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION, WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF LEADERSHIP AND AQUATICS COURSES,
ARE PASS/FAIL.
84 PHYSICAL WELFARE–PHYSICAL EDUCATION

--- Page 87 ---
CHOICE P.E. SENIOR LEADERSHIP
PED451–Semester 1 PED452–Semester 2 GPA WAIVER OPTION
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester PED81L–Semester 1 PED82L–Semester 2
Prerequisite: A Foundational Fitness class, any previous Open to: 12 Full Year
Physical Education course or director approval
Prerequisite: Physical education Leadership Training
Credit: College prep
Credit: College prep
This course is designed for students to develop and maintain
Students will apply what they learned in Physical Education
their lifelong wellness in activities of their choice. Students
Leadership Training by serving as teacher aides with a Physical
will choose the activity in which they will participate each
Education teacher. All students will participate in fitness
semester. (Regardless of activity selected, all students will
testing. Failure to comply with the Stevenson High School
learn how to apply their fitness plan, reflect on their fitness
Student Guidebook Code of Conduct and P.E. Leader Code
and build their knowledge of health-related fitness.) This
of Conduct can result in immediate dismissal.
course may be repeated for credit.
LIFEGUARD TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
EARLY BIRD OPTION
PED031 (early bird)–Semester 1 PED032 (early bird)–Semester 2 GPA WAIVER OPTION
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester PED501–Semester 1 Only Open to: 10-11-12
Prerequisite: A Foundational Fitness course, any physical One Semester
education class or director approval Prerequisite: Ability to demonstrate required swim skills.
Credit: College prep Students must be at least 15 years old by the end of the
course.
(See description for Choice P.E.). Early Bird Physical Education
Additional fee to receive AMERICAN RED CROSS certificate.
is scheduled from 7-8:25 a.m. on Monday/Wednesday/Friday. Credit: College prep
Students with excessive absenteeism in this class will be
This course is designed to provide students with the
removed from the Early Bird program and placed in a Physical
ability to earn American Red Cross Lifeguarding and First
Education class during the regularly scheduled day. This
Aid certification. Students will also learn skills in oxygen
course may be repeated for credit.
administration, preventing disease transmission and
CPR/AED. Students will be charged a fee if they wish to
PHYSICAL EDUCATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING receive their American Red Cross certification. Students
GPA WAIVER OPTION taking this class will be encouraged to participate in our
PED61L–Semester 1 PED62L–Semester 2 Pool Leadership program. (Materials for the course are
Open to: 11 Full Year available in the Patriot Superstore.)
Credit: College prep
Note: The Physical education Leadership program is a
two-year commitment
The first year of the Leadership Program is designed for
students to become effective teacher aides and strong leaders.
There will be active participation in all activities offered within
the Stevenson Physical Education program. Students will
learn to lead group activities, to develop skill progression
and to study methods and techniques of teaching physical
education. The focus of this program is to develop and expand
on leadership skills in group and individual led discussions
or teaching opportunities where students will be asked to
continually reflect on their leadership experience. Students
will have the opportunity to apply the skills they learn by
assisting Physical Education classes and planning two field
days for junior high students. Failure to comply with the
Stevenson High School Student Guidebook Code of Conduct
and P.E. Leader Code of Conduct can result in immediate
dismissal.
PHYSICAL WELFARE–PHYSICAL EDUCATION 85

--- Page 88 ---
POOL LEADERSHIP HEALTH EDUCATION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
PED71L–Semester 1 PED72L–Semester 2
THE EMPHASIS IN HEALTH EDUCATION IS ON CHOICES TO
Open to: 11-12 ONE SEMESTER OR FULL YEAR
Prerequisite: Students must have AN American Red Cross EMPOWER PERSONAL WELLNESS THROUGH EXPERIENTIAL
Lifeguarding certification.
ACTIVITIES. HEALTH EDUCATION INFORMATION IS LINKED TO
Credit: College prep
Students will continue to serve as water safety instructors, THE KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING EACH STUDENT
lifeguards and pool aides to the aquatics program. Each NEEDS TO IMPROVE THEIR EMOTIONAL AND PHYSICAL
student will receive ongoing Lifeguard In-Service Training
HEALTH.
that will keep their certifications current and their skills
sharp. At the end of each semester a student must receive
a recommendation in their evaluation to continue in the HEALTH EDUCATION
leadership program. Materials for the course are available in
PED201–Semester 1 PED202–Semester 2
the Patriot Superstore. Failure to comply with the Stevenson Open to: 10 One Semester
High School Student Guidebook Code of Conduct and P.E. Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Leader Code of Conduct can result in immediate dismissal. The following Health Education units are taught:
■ Wellness and Mental Health
ALTERNATIVE PHYSICAL EDUCATION LEADERSHIP
■ Reality of Drugs
GPA WAIVER OPTION
■ Adult CPR and AED
PED41L–Semester 1 PED42L–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year ■ Social Health
Prerequisite: Admission based on written application submitted
to and approved by the Alternative Physical Education Within the Adult CPR unit, students have the opportunity
Coordinator during Sophomore year. (Applications are available
to receive Adult CPR and AED certification (summer school
on the Physical Welfare webpage.) The Alternative Physical
Education leadership program is a two-year commitment. excluded) through the American Red Cross. (Student
Credit: College prep participation in the Adult CPR unit is a requirement.)
New students will engage in training which takes place Health Education should be completed by the end of the
in class during the first semester. Students will perform sophomore year. During the semester that a student takes
one-on-one or in small groups working with individuals who Health Education, the student is excused from Physical
have a variety of special needs. Leaders also participate in Education. By completing the Reality of Drugs unit, students
work with the students outside of the regular school day. will be prepared for the “46th Credit” exam which is a
Failure to comply with the Stevenson High School Student graduation requirement.
Guidebook Code of Conduct and P.E. Leader Code of Conduct
can result in immediate dismissal. APPLIED HEALTH
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ALTERNATIVE PHYSICAL EDUCATION PED231–Semester 1 PED232–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
PED111–Semester 1 PED112–Semester 2
Prerequisite: Health Education
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Additional fee to receive AMERICAN RED CROSS certificate
Prerequisite: A physician’s verification must be on file
Credit: College prep
Credit: College prep
The purpose of Applied Health is to develop professional
Alternative Physical Education is for students with disabilities
skills that can be applied to a career in healthcare. This
that merit an adapted curriculum. All curriculum will be
course empowers students with real usable skills and
modified and adapted so that all students can participate and
credentials in the allied medical health field. Topics in the
benefit. The instructor will work with the doctor in an effort
course include professional rescue skills, injury management,
to design a program to meet the individual needs of each
health career exploration, functional anatomy and terminology,
student.
long-term wellness and personal/professional social/
emotional life skills.
The course is lab-based and highly dependent on attendance
and participation. A fee is required for any student who wishes
to earn the American Red Cross certification. During the
semester that a student takes Applied Health, the student is
excused from Physical Education.
86 PHYSICAL WELFARE–PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HEALTH EDUCATION

--- Page 89 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT SCIENCE ONLINE:
SCIENCE DIVISION www.d125.org/academics/science
STEVE WOOD, DIRECTOR | SWOOD@D125.ORG | 847-415-4401
Science is as much a way of knowing as it is a body of knowledge. The Science Division at Stevenson is
dedicated to a laboratory approach to science education that will involve each student in the process of discovery.
This approach enables students to have practice in the kinds of analytical problem solving that will help them
throughout life. Students will engage in the Science and Engineering Practices outlined in the Next Generation
Science Standards (NGSS) as they “do science.” At the same time, students build an integrated information base
for post-secondary studies and see the cross-cutting concepts that run through all Science disciplines.
Science Curriculum Guidance
Students must complete two years of science to graduate: one year in the biological sciences and one year
in the physical sciences. This requirement can be met with two semesters of Biology or AP Biology and two
semesters of a physical science course. For college-bound students, four years of laboratory science are strongly
recommended. Ideally, students should take biology, chemistry and physics before enrolling in a second course
within any one discipline.
SCIENCE 87

--- Page 90 ---
SCIENCE DIVISION COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
Chemistry (P) Biology (B)
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
SCI211/SCI212 SCI111/SCI112
Biology (B) Chemistry (P) Earth Science (P) Physics (P) Science Research
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
SCI111/SCI112 SCI211/SCI212 SCI271/SCI272 SCI401/SCI402 SCI351/SCI352
AP Biology (B) AP Chemistry (P) Earth Science AP Physics 1 (P)
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Dual Credit (P) Full-Year Course Horticulture(B)
SCI631/SCI632 SCI651/SCI652 Full-Year Course SCI611/SCI612 One-Semester Course
Early Bird Option Early Bird Option SCI671/SCI672 Early Bird Option SCI531/SCI532
SCI63E1/SCI63E2 SCI65E1/SCI65E2 SCI61E1/SCI61E2
Biology (B) Chemistry (P) Earth Science (P) Physics (P) Science Research
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
SCI111/SCI112 SCI211/SCI212 SCI271/SCI272 SCI401/SCI402 SCI351/SCI352
AP Biology (B) AP Chemistry (P) Earth Science AP Physics 1 (P)
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course Dual Credit (P) Full-Year Course Horticulture(B)
SCI631/SCI632 SCI651/SCI652 Full-Year Course SCI611/SCI612 One-Semester Course
Early Bird Option Early Bird Option SCI671/SCI672 Early Bird Option SCI531/SCI532
SCI63E1/SCI63E2 SCI65E1/SCI65E2 SCI61E1/SCI61E2
AP Environmental
AP Physics 2 (P)
Science (1B and 1P)
Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course
SCI681/SCI682
SCI641/SCI642
Human Anatomy AP Physics C (P)
and Physiology (B) Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course SCI661/SCI662
SCI521/SCI522 Early Bird Option
SCI66E1/SCI66E2
KEY:
B=Biological Science
P=Physical Science
88 SCIENCE

--- Page 91 ---
BIOLOGY PHYSICS
SCI111–Semester 1 SCI112–Semester 2 SCI401–Semester 1 SCI402–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE Prerequisite: None
Credit: COLLEGE PREP Biological Science Credit: College prep physical science
In this lab-based course, students explore macromolecules, In this lab-based course, students explore constant and
comparative anatomy, group behavior, genetics, evolution, changing velocity, forces, energy, momentum, electrostatics,
DNA technology, ecology, diffusion/osmosis, gene expression, electricity and magnetism, circuits and waves. Students
cancer and the cell cycle, human impacts, homeostasis and will work collaboratively and engage with the science and
interactions between body systems. Students will work engineering practices. This course can fulfill students’
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering graduation requirement for two semesters of physical
practices. Students will work together to complete a pig science and is beneficial for students considering careers
dissection in this course. This course can fulfill students’ in engineering.
graduation requirement for two semesters of biological
science. HORTICULTURE
SCI531–Semester 1 SCI532–Semester 2
CHEMISTRY Open to: 10-11-12 ONE SEMESTER
Prerequisite: NONE
SCI211–Semester 1 SCI212–Semester 2
Credit: College prep Biological science
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE In this lab-based course, students explore plant structure,
Credit: COLLEGE PREP Physical Science function, ecology and cultivation. Students will work
In this lab-based course, students explore atomic structure, collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering
the periodic table, intermolecular forces, thermodynamics, practices, including frequent visits and learning in Stevenson’s
types of reactions, reaction rates, equilibrium and acids greenhouse and green roof environments. This course does
and bases. Students will work collaboratively and engage not satisfy the life science graduation requirement, but it is
with the science and engineering practices. This course beneficial for students who are interested in learning more
can fulfill students’ graduation requirement for two semesters about plants and plant propagation.
of physical science.
SCIENCE RESEARCH
EARTH SCIENCE SCI351–Semester 1 SCI352–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 FULL YEAR
SCI271–Semester 1 SCI272–Semester 2
Prerequisite: None PASS/FAIL COURSE
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Credit: College Prep Elective Science
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: College Prep Physical Science In this lab-based course, students explore scientific inquiry
In this lab-based course, students explore minerals, rocks, and research methods. Students will work collaboratively
plate tectonics, earthquakes, volcanoes, weathering, running and engage with the science and engineering practices.
water, glaciers, wind, atmospheric science and astronomy. In this course, students design and conduct experiments,
Students will work collaboratively and engage with the science analyze data and present findings for their original research
and engineering practices, applying their learning in several project that will be entered into symposia, competitions and
hands-on engineering projects across the year. This course can publications.
fulfill students’ graduation requirement for two semesters of
physical science. HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
SCI521–Semester 1 SCI522–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: Accelerated Biological science
In this lab-based course, students go beyond basic
biology of human body systems and delve into the complex
relationships required to maintain homeostasis. Students
will work collaboratively and engage with the science and
engineering practices. In this course students conduct
dissections. This course does not satisfy the life science
graduation requirement, but it is beneficial for students
considering careers in health-related fields.
SCIENCE 89

--- Page 92 ---
EARTH SCIENCE DUAL CREDIT AP PHYSICS 2
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE AT NO COST THROUGH COLLEGE OF SCI681–Semester 1 SCI682–Semester 2
LAKE COUNTY Open to: 11-12 Full Year
SCI671–Semester 1 SCI672–Semester 2 Prerequisite: AP Physics 1 or Physics
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year Credit: honors physical science
Prerequisite: NONE
In this lab-based course, students explore electrostatics,
Credit: Honors (Dual Credit) Physical Science
circuits, electromagnetism, thermodynamics, waves and
In this lab-based course, students explore geology,
sound, optics and modern physics topics. Students will work
meteorology and astronomy. Students will work collabora-
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering
tively and engage with the science and engineering practices.
practices. This course is beneficial for students considering
This course is a dual-credit, college-level science course where
majors or careers in science or engineering. Students who
students can earn college credit hours at no cost through the
enroll in this course will be prepared to take the AP Physics 2
College of Lake County.
exam in May.
AP PHYSICS 1
AP BIOLOGY
SCI611–Semester 1 SCI612–Semester 2
SCI631–Semester 1 SCI632–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: honors physical science
Credit: Honors Biological science
EARLY BIRD OPTION
EARLY BIRD OPTION
SCI61E1–Semester 1 SCI61E2–Semester 2
SCI63E1–Semester 1 SCI63E2–Semester 2
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore linear,
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore
circular and simple harmonic motion, forces, energy,
evolution, proteins, cell evolution, DNA, photosynthesis,
momentum, rotation and fluids. Students will work
ecology, cellular respiration, gene expression, gene regulation,
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering
genetics and cell signaling. Students will work collaboratively
practices. This course can fulfill students’ graduation
and engage with the science and engineering practices. This
requirement for two semesters of physical science and is
course can fulfill students’ graduation requirement for two
beneficial for students considering majors or careers in
semesters of biological science and is beneficial for students
science or engineering. Students who enroll in this course will
considering majors or careers in science or health-related
be prepared to take the AP Physics 1 exam in May.
fields. Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to
take the AP Biology exam in May.
90 SCIENCE

--- Page 93 ---
AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AP PHYSICS C
SCI641–Semester 1 SCI642–Semester 2 SCI661–Semester 1 SCI662–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE Prerequisite: AP Physics 1 or AP Physics 2, and completion or
Credit: Honors Biological science, honors physical science concurrent enrollment in AP Calculus AB or BC, or approval
of director
In this lab-based course, students explore earth systems,
Credit: honors physical science
ecology, populations, energy use, global warming and
EARLY BIRD OPTION
pollution. Students will work collaboratively and engage with SCI66E1–Semester 1 SCI66E2–Semester 2
the science and engineering practices. This course takes field
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore linear,
trips throughout the year. Students who enroll in this course
rotational, and simple harmonic motion; forces; energy;
will be prepared to take the AP Environmental Science exam
momentum; electrostatics; DC circuits; magnetostatics; and
in May.
electromagnetic induction. Students will work collaboratively
and engage with the science and engineering practices. This
AP CHEMISTRY
course is beneficial for students considering majors or careers
SCI651–Semester 1 SCI652–Semester 2 in science or engineering. Students who enroll in this course
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
will be prepared to take both the AP Physics C Mechanics and
Prerequisite: NONE
AP Physics C Electricity and Magnetism exams in May.
Credit: honors physical science
EARLY BIRD OPTION
SCI65E1–Semester 1 SCI65E2–Semester 2
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore chemical
bonding, the behavior of gases, the structure of matter, kinetic
theory, solutions, acid-base chemistry, electrochemistry,
molecular geometry, thermodynamics and equilibrium.
Students will work collaboratively and engage with the science
and engineering practices. This course can fulfill students’
graduation requirement for two semesters of physical science
and is beneficial for students considering majors in science.
Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to take the
AP Chemistry exam in May.
SCIENCE 91

--- Page 94 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT SOCIAL STUDIES ONLINE:
SOCIAL STUDIES DIVISION www.d125.org/academics/social-studies
BRAD SMITH, DIRECTOR | BSMITH@D125.ORG | 847-415-4651
Social Studies is the integrated study of the social sciences and humanities to promote civic competence. Within
the school program, social studies provides a coordinated, systematic study drawing upon such disciplines as
anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, history, law, philosophy, political science, psychology, religion
and sociology, as well as appropriate content from the humanities, mathematics and natural sciences. The primary
purpose of social studies is to help students develop the ability to make informed and reasoned decisions for the
public good as citizens of a culturally diverse, democratic society in an interdependent 21st century world.
A minimum of three years of study in Social Studies is recommended for college-bound students.
Social Studies Courses Required for Graduation:
■ One year of World History and Geography
■ One year of U.S. History (or AP U.S. History)
■ One semester of Government (or AP U.S. Government and Politics)—Both Government
and AP U.S. Government satisfy the Illinois civics requirements for graduation.
■ One semester of Economics, AP Macroeconomics, AP Microeconomics or Personal Finance
is necessary for graduation.
92 SOCIAL STUDIES

--- Page 95 ---
SOCIAL STUDIES COURSE OFFERINGS
WWW.D125.ORG/ACADEMICS/COURSEBOOK
World History
and Geography*
Full-Year Course
SOC101/SOC102
Law In AP Comparative
Constitutional Law Global Relations Sociology Psychology
American Society Government and Politics
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
SOC511 or SOC512 SOC531 or SOC532 SOC541 or SOC542 SOC551 or SOC552
SOC431 or SOC432 SOC631 or SOC632
AP European AP African American AP Comparative
World Religions AP Human Geography
History Studies Government and Politics
One-Semester Course Full-Year Course
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course (Online Option)
SOC501 or SOC502 SOC611/SOC612
SOC601/SOC602 SOC691/SOC692 One-Semester Course
SOC63Q1 or SOC63Q2
American Studies
U.S. History* AP U.S. History*
(AP U.S. History and AP English
Full-Year Course Full-Year Course
Language and Composition)
SOC321/SOC322 SOC621/SOC622
Full-Year Course
SOC581/SOC582
Sociology Philosophy and
Economics* AP Macroeconomics* AP Microeconomics*
Dual Credit Political Theory
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course One-Semester Course
One-Semester Course Dual Credit
SOC411 or SOC412 SOC641 or SOC642 SOC651 or SOC652
SOC571 or SOC572 One-Semester Course
SOC671 or SOC672
AP Government– Political Thought AP Psychology—
Government* AP Psychology
United States* and Its Literature Blended
One-Semester Course Full-Year Course
One-Semester Course One-Semester Course Full-Year Course
SOC401 or SOC402 SOC661/SOC662
SOC681 or SOC682 SOC561 or SOC562 SOC6B1/SOC6B2
AP Government–
United States*
(Online Option)
SOC6Q1 or SOC6Q2
* Courses marked with an asterisk fulfill
Social Studies graduation requirement
SOCIAL STUDIES 93

--- Page 96 ---
WORLD HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY GLOBAL RELATIONS
SOC101–Semester 1 SOC102–Semester 2 SOC531–Semester 1 SOC532–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10 Full Year Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep
World History and Geography is a one-year course required for
graduation and a prerequisite for all courses in Social Studies. This one-semester course focuses on significant and
Students taking World History and Geography develop contemporary global events. The emphasis in the course will
core academic skills in reading and writing while studying be on international events after the Cold War. A major goal of
history from the origins of human civilizations to the present. the course is to encourage an understanding and evaluation
Patterns and changes in political and economic systems, of the international system through major current events.
social structures, religious beliefs and ideologies and cultural Students will be expected to read current news publications
accomplishments are studied from a global perspective with in addition to assigned text materials and will be engaged in
case studies from every world region. Through collaboration, several issue-based simulations throughout the course.
discussion and debate, World History and Geography
students will improve their: 1) historical and geographic LAW IN AMERICAN SOCIETY
literacy, 2) historical evaluation and analysis and 3) historical SOC431–Semester 1 SOC432–Semester 2
argumentation for the purpose of becoming better readers, Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
writers and critical thinkers. With the foundational study Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep
of World History and Geography, students develop global
perspective, appreciation for global and community diversity In this one-semester course, students will develop a basic
and an understanding of the historical forces that have understanding of our legal system, its terminology and its
shaped our present world. procedures. An emphasis will be placed on analyzing real
world issues and court cases that relate to our rights as
citizens and the role of our legal system. The class will rely
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
heavily on class discussions, group projects and simulations.
SOC511–Semester 1 SOC512–Semester 2
We will explore the lawmaking process, civil law, criminal
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography law, criminal investigations and criminal behavior. Students
Credit: College prep will also prepare opening statements, learn how to question
Constitutional Law provides students with an understanding witnesses and engage in mock trial activities. This class will
of how the U.S. Constitution came into existence, why it took expose students to skills and content that will prove useful
the form it did and how it functions in contemporary American for those considering careers in law, criminal justice, crime
society. Students will develop analytical and evaluative skills prevention and other public occupations.
by applying constitutional principles to a variety of legal issues
and political controversies. Students will assume a lawyer’s PSYCHOLOGY
role in oral argument activities. Students interested in legal SOC551–Semester 1 SOC552–Semester 2
careers, criminal and civil rights and public service should Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
consider this course. Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep
Psychology is a scientific study that deals with emotional,
behavioral and mental processes of people in society. Special
emphasis includes: abnormal psychology (psychological
disorders and treatments) and social psychology (people’s
perceptions of themselves and others, group behavior and
interpersonal attraction). In addition, other topics covered
include personality, learning, memory and the brain. This
course will provide an introduction to topics typically covered
in an introductory level college psychology course. Students
will learn how psychology applies to their lives by partaking
in class discussions and group projects. Upon completion of
this course students should have a better understanding of
themselves and the wide variety of people around them.
94 SOCIAL STUDIES

--- Page 97 ---
SOCIOLOGY AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY
SOC541–Semester 1 SOC542–Semester 2 SOC611–Semester 1 SOC612–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep Credit: honors
The purpose of this course is to provide students with a The purpose of the advanced placement course in human
chance to examine human social interaction and social geography is to introduce students to the systematic
organization. Sociology focuses on special topics such as study of patterns and processes that have shaped human
groups, culture, socialization, deviance and inequalities understanding, use and alteration of our world. Students
(gender, social class, race, ethnicity). This class will explore employ geographical and spatial concepts and tools to analyze
these areas through sociological readings and engaging in topics such as human population movement and organization,
discussing and simulation. Students will learn how to become cultural patterns and processes, political organization,
more reflective of themselves, their community and their agricultural and rural land use, industrialization and economic
society. Students will be required to complete ten community development and city and urban land use. Students will be
service hours as an alternative to a traditional final exam. expected to integrate college-level reading with maps, graphs
Upon completion of this course and required service hours, and other spatial data sets to conduct analyses, apply models
students should gain a better understanding of themselves and draw conclusions. A summer reading assignment must be
and their place in the social world. completed prior to beginning this course. Students who enroll
in this course are prepared to take the AP Human Geography
WORLD RELIGIONS exam in May.
SOC501–Semester 1 SOC502–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester AP AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
SOC691–Semester 1 SOC692–Semester 2
Credit: College prep
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
This course is designed to introduce students to the major Prerequisite: World History and Geography
religions of the world. Students will analyze each religion’s Credit: honors
foundations, historical development, principle themes and This year-long Social Studies elective credit course is
beliefs and cultural impact. Its primary purpose is to equip designed to prepare students to meet the AP College
students with an understanding of the major ideas and Board interdisciplinary standards on their assessment.
practices of the world’s religions so that they may better The course is designed to examine a diversity of African
understand the world in which they live. American experiences using authentic and varied sources
of information. Students will study topics from early African
AP EUROPEAN HISTORY kingdoms to the ongoing challenges and accomplishments
of the present day. Recurring social studies inquiry skills
SOC601–Semester 1 SOC602–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year of questioning, source analysis and argumentation will be
Prerequisite: World History and Geography developed using a variety of literary, historical, data set and
Credit: honors visual forms of evidence. Students are required to complete a
This course focuses on dominant ideas in the world today research project of their choice, drawn from topics or themes
(democracy, industrialism, capitalism, communism, the within the course, and submitted to AP as part of the AP Exam
scientific method) through the advanced study of European and scored by AP graders. Students who enroll in this course
history, with a focus on understanding how European ideas, will be prepared to take the remainder of the AP African
culture, politics and economics have shaped the world from American Studies exam in May.
1450 to the present. Students will collaboratively engage with,
discuss and debate historical evidence in order to improve
their capacities in: 1) historical comprehension, 2) historical
analysis and 3) historical argumentation. As a result, students
will learn that history is an interpretive, dynamic study of the
past that empowers them to impact the future. Students who
enroll in this course are prepared to take the AP European
History exam in May.
SOCIAL STUDIES 95

--- Page 98 ---
AP COMPARATIVE GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS U.S. HISTORY
SOC631–Semester 1 SOC632–Semester 2 SOC321–Semester 1 SOC322–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 ONE SEMESTER Open to: 11 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors Credit: College prep
This one-semester elective course introduces students to This course fulfills the graduation requirement of one year
the rich diversity of political life outside the United States. of U.S. history, as established by the State of Illinois. With
Students use a comparative approach to examine the political an emphasis on the 20th century, the overriding goal of
structures; policies; and political, economic and social this course is to give students the skills and opportunity to
challenges of six selected countries: China, Iran, Mexico, understand how the current domestic and international
Nigeria, Russia and the United Kingdom. Students compare status of the U.S. developed. Similar to the World History
the effectiveness of approaches to many global issues by and Geography experience in Social Studies, this course is
examining how different governments solve similar problems designed to help students identify causes and effects, events
by reading and interpreting data, making comparisons and and philosophies, which led to the contemporary situation
applications and developing evidence-based arguments. This and provide them with a historical basis for decision-making
course does not satisfy the Stevenson government graduation through the use of historical inquiry skills such as: analyzing
requirement, nor the Illinois Civics requirement for graduation primary, secondary and tertiary sources; developing historical
for the State of Illinois. Students are prepared to take the arguments and communicating conclusions. Geographic
AP Comparative Government and Politics exam in May. themes such as location, mobility and interaction with the
environment are stressed within this historical treatment
AP COMPARATIVE GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS— as well.
ONLINE
SOC63Q1–Semester 1 SOC63Q2–Semester 2 AP U.S. HISTORY
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
SOC621–Semester 1 SOC622–Semester 2
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Open to: 11 Full Year
Credit: honors
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
AP Comparative Government and Politics is offered in Credit: honors
an asynchronous online setting. The primary mode of
This sequence fulfills the graduation requirement of one
instruction, assessment, feedback and collaboration
year of U.S. history as set by the State of Illinois. In this
will be online. Instructional activities are adjusted for an
Advanced Placement course, students investigate significant
asynchronous online instructional setting. There will be no
events, individuals, developments and processes in nine
regular physical class meeting period or time. Activities and
historical periods from approximately 1491 to the present.
assignments will have daily due dates. Students will receive
Students develop and use the same skills and methods
regular individualized feedback from the teacher. In-person
employed by historians: analyzing primary and secondary
remediation may be required on an individualized student
sources; developing historical arguments; making historical
basis with the teacher during a lunch or 8th period. Some
connections; and utilizing reasoning about comparison,
assessments will be in-person using the testing center. The
causation and continuity and change. This course will develop
online version meets the exact same curricular requirements
college-level reading and writing skills through the advanced
and students will be prepared to take the AP Comparative
study of United States history. Students who enroll in this
Government and Politics exam in May.
course are prepared to take the AP U.S. History exam in May.
96 SOCIAL STUDIES

--- Page 99 ---
AMERICAN STUDIES (AP U.S. HISTORY AND SOCIOLOGY
AP ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND COMPOSITION)
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
SOC581–Semester 1 SOC582–Semester 2
SOC571–Semester 1 SOC572–Semester 2
Open to: 11 Full Year
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, Sophomore English
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors
Credit: honors
Students are scheduled for consecutive periods of history and Additional fees for dual credit may be imposed by the
college/university.
English, allowing for an integrated study of the two disciplines,
development of skills for informed citizenship and thematic Sociology is a course in partnership with Loyola University
movements in our country’s history and literature. This course Chicago which allows students to take a college class while
fulfills the College Board’s objectives for both AP English still in high school. The student can transfer earned credit in
Language and Composition and AP U.S. History, with attention this class from Loyola University Chicago to the college they
to how a shared focus on both content and skills reinforces the attend. As an introductory survey course, Sociology aims to
development of the common and separate course objectives, provide students with an understanding of how sociologists
including preparation for both AP exams. The AP U.S. History do research and what the seminal pieces of research in their
component focuses on the development of historical field reveal. The class will explore the structures of society,
thinking skills (chronological reasoning, comparing and especially family, education, peers and media, all of which
contextualizing, crafting historical arguments using historical influence individuals by creating and maintaining culture and
evidence and interpreting and synthesizing historical social stability. The class also examines social inequalities,
narrative) and an understanding of content objectives and especially social class, race and gender. Sociology is a social
themes. SAT and AP exam preparation are used to sharpen science, and as such, it uses scientific study to examine
reading, editing and revising skills. Students who enroll in this society. It is not a debate class or a class centered around
course are prepared to take both the AP English Language and rhetorical arguments. This scientific analysis of society is
Composition and the AP U.S. History exams in May. useful in many academic disciplines, and so sociology is often
a prerequisite for other areas of study such as medicine, law
and criminal justice, nursing, education and psychology,
ECONOMICS
among others.
SOC411–Semester 1 SOC412–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep
Students in this course develop the economic awareness
and decision-making skills to make rational and informed
economic decisions in life, become responsible consumers
and develop essential business and job skills for their futures.
Through collaborative and interactive activities and units,
students gain an understanding of basic economic concepts,
the impact economic factors can have on their lives and their
role in the growing global economy. Students improve their
critical-thinking skills to better understand world events
and participate as global citizens. This course also fulfills the
Economic/Personal Finance graduation requirement.
SOCIAL STUDIES 97

--- Page 100 ---
AP MACROECONOMICS PHILOSOPHY AND POLITICAL THEORY
SOC641–Semester 1 SOC642–Semester 2 DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
Open to: 11-12 One Semester SOC671–Semester 1 SOC672–Semester 2
Prerequisite: World History and Geography Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Credit: honors Prerequisite: World History and Geography
The purpose of an advanced placement course in Credit: honors
Additional fees for dual credit may be imposed by the
macroeconomics is to give students a thorough understanding
college/university.
of the principles of economics that apply to an economic
What is the meaning of life? What is reality? How do I know
system as a whole. The course places particular emphasis on
what I know? This course introduces philosophies and political
the study of national income and price-level determination,
theories by which humans have attempted to understand and
and also develops students’ familiarity with economic
organize their world. It is a college-level elective that explores
performance measures, the financial sector, stabilization
major world philosophies, their influence on each other and
policies, economic growth and international economics. It
their influence on the present. Students will contemplate
places emphasis on the different philosophies and theories
ethical dilemmas to cultivate more thoughtful decision
associated with macroeconomic analysis and policy. Students
making in their lives. Students will learn the theories of major
will analyze both basic and extensive economic concepts in
philosophers and utilize those ideas in discussion, debates
order to become informed economic consumers, producers
and written assignments. Students will synthesize those ideas
and suppliers. Students who enroll in this course are prepared
into a personal philosophy of their own. Upon successful
to take the AP Macroeconomics exam in May. Successful
completion of course requirements, students electing to
completion of this class fulfills the Economics/Personal
receive dual credit from Loyola University Chicago will
Finance graduation requirement.
receive three credit hours for Philosophy 130: This course
introduces students to the fundamental philosophical issues
AP MICROECONOMICS
that bear on our understanding of persons in three equally
SOC651–Semester 1 SOC652–Semester 2 weighted components, namely, Persons & Knowledge,
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Persons & Values, and Persons & Reality.
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors
GOVERNMENT
This is an advanced placement level course preparing
students for the AP Microeconomics exam. Coursework in SOC401–Semester 1 SOC402–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester
AP Microeconomics includes: the basic economic problem,
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
the nature of markets, the firm, the factor markets and the
Credit: College prep
role of government. Successful completion of this class fulfills
Topics considered in this course include the fundamental
the Economics/Personal Finance graduation requirement.
concepts and structure of federal, state and local government;
Students who enroll in this course are prepared to take the
methods of selecting candidates for office; methods by which
AP Microeconomics exam in May.
individuals and groups may influence government officials
and mechanics of voting. Instruction and assessment will
address the principles of representative government, as
enunciated in the American Declaration of Independence,
the U.S. Constitution and the Constitution of the
State of Illinois. This course satisfies the Illinois civics
requirement for high school graduation and Stevenson’s
graduation requirement of one semester of government.
98 SOCIAL STUDIES

--- Page 101 ---
POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE AP PSYCHOLOGY
SOC561–Semester 1 SOC562–Semester 2 SOC661–Semester 1 SOC662–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester Open to: 12 Full Year
Prerequisite: U.S. History and Junior English Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: College prep Credit: honors
This one-semester elective course, which can be taken as The purpose of the year-long, advanced placement course
an English credit or social studies credit, helps students in psychology is to introduce students to the systematic and
develop skills in the areas of reading, literary analysis, writing, scientific study of the behavior and mental processes of
oral communication and research in order to help them humans and animals. This course will provide the student
be better prepared for future education. Students explore with a learning experience equivalent to that obtained in
the overarching themes of the course—the individual’s an introductory college psychology course. The course
understanding of self and others, individualism v. collectivism satisfies the psychology requirement typically needed by
in democracy, ethics and morals, political partisanship, race students wishing to pursue a career in business, engineering,
relations, diversity, income inequality, politics and media education, law, medicine and any other health-related fields
relations, civil liberties and many other important political (including preparation for the MCAT). Particular emphasis
issues—through short stories, essays, articles, novels, poetry, includes neuroscience, sleep, mental illness and treatment,
drama and other intriguing texts. Through their reading memory, personality and social psychology. Students who
and inquiry, students are introduced to various stylistic enroll in this course are prepared to take the AP Psychology
techniques that help them learn strategies to improve their exam in May.
reading comprehension, writing, listening and speaking
skills. Students write in multiple formats throughout the year, AP PSYCHOLOGY—BLENDED OPTION
including narrative and argumentative, which is a framework
SOC6B1–Semester 1 SOC6B2–Semester 2
for critical thinking. Authentic class discussion plays a vital Open to: 12 Full Year
role in that students talk in class as a means of enhancing their Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
speaking and listening skills as a critical thinker. Students will Credit: honors
participate in a mock trial, reach outside of the community, AP Psychology is also offered in a blended learning setting.
participate in class discussions and examine what it means The same course requirements are met. The blended format is
to develop a world view and what it means to be a political a combination of traditional in-person classroom instruction,
scientist. small group or individualized sessions and asynchronous
learning activities during class time. Students still meet for
a period of AP Psychology at a set period each day with the
teacher determining for students the type of class setting
for the day. Most weeks the course meets in person on two
or three days each week for face-to-face instruction. On
non-face-to-face days, the instructor will be in the classroom
and available to answer questions or offer additional support
while students are doing work in the classroom or other
designated locations around the school building. If a student
is absent on an in-person day they must meet with the
instructor on the next non-attendance day. This blended
AP Psychology course will involve using technology to
provide every student with a more unique learning experience,
including greater individual autonomy with regards to the
location, pace and time when learning occurs.
SOCIAL STUDIES 99

--- Page 102 ---
AP GOVERNMENT–UNITED STATES
SOC681–Semester 1 SOC682–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: honors
This course gives students the tools to engage meaningfully
in the local, state and national political process. This course
involves both the study of general concepts used to interpret
U.S. politics and the analysis of specific case studies. It also
requires familiarity with the various institutions, groups,
beliefs and ideas that constitute United States political
reality. Civics skills will be acquired to help students learn
to use the skills, knowledge and attitudes that will prepare
them to be competent and responsible citizens. Instruction
and assessment will address the principles of representative
government, as enunciated in the American Declaration
of Independence, the Constitution of the U.S.A. and the
Constitution of the State of Illinois. This course satisfies
the Illinois civics requirement for high school graduation
and Stevenson’s graduation requirement of one semester
of government. Students who enroll in this course will be
prepared to take the AP United States Government and
Politics exam in May.
AP GOVERNMENT–UNITED STATES—ONLINE
SOC6Q1–Semester 1 SOC6Q2–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: honors
AP Government–United States can also be taken in an
asynchronous online setting while fulfilling the same
curricular requirements. Instructional activities are adjusted
for an asynchronous online instructional setting. There will be
no regular physical class meeting period or time. Activities and
assignments will have daily due dates. Students will receive
regular individualized feedback from the teacher. Common
AP Government team assessments will be conducted
in-person during the school day in the testing center. Daily
in-person office hours with the teacher will be available for all
students enrolled in the course. In-person remediation may
be required by the teacher as needed on an individual student
basis during office hours.
100 SOCIAL STUDIES

--- Page 103 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT STUDENT LEARNING
STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS PROGRAMS: www.d125.org/academics/tutoring
BRETT ERDMANN, DIRECTOR | BERDMANN@D125.ORG | 847-415-4506
Stevenson High School provides a continuum of courses and support programs to ensure that all students have
access to a rigorous course of study while supporting their individual needs to ensure success. None of the following
courses meet the core course graduation requirements; however, some courses do provide elective credit.
The following pages describe this continuum.
STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS 101

--- Page 104 ---
ACADEMIC LITERACY 1 MENTOR MATH
The focus of this course provides instruction in the skills A student is placed into Mentor Math upon the
needed for success in high school and beyond. This course recommendation of the content teacher when in-class
emphasizes fundamental literacy within all academic instruction is not fully sufficient to support the student in
disciplines with a focus on those subjects and skills most either Algebra 1, Geometry or Algebra 2. The class is designed
appropriate to freshman year. Students will learn strategies to offer intensive, small group Mathematics instruction with a
to support reading, writing and listening and speaking Mathematics teacher to reinforce current content and develop
skills in Science, Communication Arts, Social Studies and prerequisite skills. This course is pass/fail and counts for one
Mathematics. Depending on their benchmark and/or ongoing elective mathematics credit per semester, but does not count
assessment results, this course may be required of some toward the six math credits needed for graduation. Students
entering freshmen. This pass/fail course counts for one must enter the course by the nine-week mark to receive credit.
elective Communication Arts credit but is not an English
graduation credit. GUIDED STUDY MATH
Guided Study Math is a supportive, non-credit course
ACADEMIC LITERACY 2
designed to help students strengthen their mathematics
This course provides in-depth instruction in the skills skills. Placement is determined by the student’s feeder
needed for success in high school and beyond, tailored school or Student Support Team (SST). Teachers of Algebra
to the curriculum needs of sophomores and juniors. This 1, Geometry, or Algebra 2 can also make recommendations.
course emphasizes fundamental literacy within a variety of In this course, a certified educator provides small group
academic disciplines. Students will learn strategies to support instruction focused on skill development, targeted practice
reading, writing, listening and speaking skills in Science, and assignment completion. Weekly progress checks help
Communication Arts and Social Studies. Depending on their students build positive academic habits and self-advocacy.
benchmark, post-performance and/or ongoing assessment While mathematics is the priority, support is available for
results, this course may be required of some students. This other academic courses as well. The small class size allows
pass/fail course counts for one elective Communication Arts for personalized attention and a customized learning
credit but is not an English graduation credit. experience for each student.
ACADEMIC LITERACY 2+ GUIDED STUDY
This course provides in-depth instruction in the skills Guided Study is a supportive, non-credit course designed
needed for success in high school and beyond, tailored to help students strengthen skills in their current academic
to the curriculum needs of sophomores and juniors. This courses. Placement is determined by the student’s feeder
course emphasizes fundamental literacy within a variety school or Student Support Team (SST). In this course, a
of academic disciplines. Students will learn strategies to certified educator provides support for skill development,
support reading, writing, listening and speaking skills in targeted practice and assignment completion. Weekly
Science, Communication Arts and Social Studies. Depending progress checks help students build positive academic habits
on their reading and literacy benchmark, post-performance and self-advocacy. The small class size allows for personalized
and/or ongoing assessment results, this course may be attention and a customized learning experience for each
required of a student to specifically focus on reading fluency student.
and necessary reading comprehension skills. This course
counts for one elective Communication Arts credit but is MENTOR SKILLS
not an English graduation credit.
Mentor Skills is a course designed to help students
achieve academic and social-emotional growth in a
supportive environment that focuses on the district’s three
social-emotional learning (SEL) skills: self-regulation,
communication and connection, and decision-making. In
addition, students develop executive functioning skills and
habits of mind to support success in high school and beyond.
Students are identified for the Mentor Skills class by their
Student Support Team (SST) based on entrance criteria.
Mentor Skills is a semester-long course that may be repeated
for credit (a maximum of four semesters).
102 STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS

--- Page 105 ---
SUPPORT PROGRAMS GUIDED STUDY LUNCH
Guided Study Lunch is an intervention for students who
need additional assistance with course skills, classroom
STUDENT TUTORIAL PROGRAMS
work completion and organization of school work in a daily,
Content area tutors are available in the ILC from 7 a.m.-5:30 p.m. structured environment. A student is enrolled in Guided Study
and the ELC from 7 a.m.-3:30 p.m. on regular school days. Lunch by their Student Support Team (SST) when classroom
Mathematics tutors are available in the ILC from 7 a.m.-5:30 p.m. performance demonstrates a need for daily, structured,
on regular school days. Students are encouraged to work additional support for learning targets and/or classroom
with a tutor to meet their academic goals. No appointment is work completion and the student has chosen not to attend
necessary. Mandatory Targeted Tutoring or other support interventions
that are offered. A student is dismissed from Guided Study
MANDATORY TARGETED TUTORING Lunch at the end of each semester or once the student has met
exit criteria. Guided Study Lunch is for sophomores, juniors
Mandatory Targeted Tutoring is an intervention for students
and seniors during half their lunch
who need additional assistance with specific course skills.
period (20 minutes).
A student is enrolled in Mandatory Targeted Tutoring when
classroom performance demonstrates a need for additional
GUIDED STUDY AFTER SCHOOL
support. A student is dismissed from Mandatory Targeted
Tutoring at the discretion of the classroom teacher based on Guided Study After School is an intervention for students who
an examination of the learning trends. An email is sent to both need additional assistance with course skills, classroom work
the student and parents/guardians indicating the student’s completion and organization of school work in a structured
requirement into and exit out of Mandatory Targeted Tutoring. environment. A student is enrolled in Guided Study After
Mandatory Targeting Tutoring sessions can be completed with School by their Student Support Team (SST) when classroom
a teacher or an ILC/ELC tutor. performance demonstrates a need for daily, structured
additional support for learning targets and/or classroom
Content area tutors are available in the ILC and ELC on regular
work completion and the student has chosen not to attend
school days to provide Mandatory Targeted Tutoring.
Mandatory Targeted Tutoring or other support interventions
that are offered. A student is dismissed from Guided Study
After School at the end of each semester or once the student
has met all exit criteria. Guided Study After School is for
freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors from 3:30-4 p.m.
on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in the QLC.
STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS 103

--- Page 106 ---
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT
SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES:
www.d125.org/academics/academic-
divisions/special-education
SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES
TRACI WALLEN, DIRECTOR | TWALLEN@D125.ORG | 847-415-4801
Stevenson High School provides all students with special education needs a free and appropriate public
education. Students and their parents/guardians serve as members of the IEP team and fully participate in
determining the eligibility for Special Education Services. Once a student has been found eligible for special
education and/or related services, an individualized education plan is developed to determine the appropriate
services. This multi-disciplinary team is responsible for determining the most appropriate education
placement in the least restrictive environment.
The Illinois State and Educational Rights and Responsibilities Guide and the Procedural Safeguards are posted
on the Special Education homepage of the Stevenson website. In addition, they are available upon request
from the Special Education Division.
Stevenson High School offers a full continuum of services and programs, as outlined on the following pages.
104 SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES

--- Tables on Page 106 ---
Table 1:
 | 

Table 2:
104 SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES | 

--- Page 107 ---
STUDY SKILLS PROGRAM STRUCTURED LEARNING PROGRAM
Study Skills is a special education course for students with The Structured Learning Program is designed to meet the
Individualized Education Plans (IEPs). It provides specialized needs of students requiring a highly structured, consistent
instruction in areas of identified disabilities and fosters learning environment. The program’s significantly
independence and self-awareness. Students will work individualized instruction focuses on increasing student’s
toward achieving their annual IEP goals and post-secondary self-management skills and independence, as well as further
outcomes. development of functional academic skills. The program
offers a modified curriculum that is supplemented with
INSTRUCTIONAL COURSES one-to-one assistance and supervision throughout the
school day.
Special education instructional courses are designed to meet
the needs of students who require specialized instruction
SUPPORTED ACADEMIC AND INDEPENDENT LIVING
in the courses required for graduation. They are taught by a (SAIL)
special education teacher and are only available to students
The Supported Academic and Independent Living (SAIL)
with an individualized education plan.
program offers a modified, functional curriculum for students
with mild to moderate intellectual and functional deficits.
AUTISM SPECTRUM (ASP) SUPPORT PROGRAM
The SAIL program focuses on functional academic skills, and
The Autism Spectrum (ASP) Support Program is a strategy- independent living and prevocational skills. Students in the
based program that serves as a platform for the development SAIL program participate in small group instruction to develop
of social/emotional, executive functioning and core content their foundational skills.
skills for individual learners. Because these skills are
pervasive in all coursework at Stevenson High School and EDUCATIONAL LIFE SKILLS PROGRAM (ELS)
beyond, students in this class will develop compensatory
The Educational Life Skills Program (ELS) is designed as a
strategies to improve deficit areas through the application of
school-within-a-school, supporting students with moderate
evidence-based practices. A student’s support team bridges
to severe functional and cognitive deficits. The ELS program
direct instruction and classroom support through regular
offers individualized, one-to-one support as well as small
collaboration and communication with their teachers, as
group instruction. Student learning is highly modified
well as push-in services taking place within the classroom.
and individualized per student based on their specific IEP
Students may participate in lessons to further develop social
goals. The ELS program emphasizes functional life skill
skills and independent living skills, based on the needs of each
domains, including adaptive skills, self-care, recreation/
student. ASP study skills programming is individualized for
leisure, community, vocational skill sets and communication.
each student, based upon individual IEP goals, services and
Students in the ELS program participate in community-based
transition plans.
instruction to generalize skills.
ON-SITE ALTERNATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM
The Alternative Education Program (AEP) is a highly
supervised program that addresses the individual needs
of students with an IEP who have been challenged with
emotional, behavioral and medical aspects of their education.
AEP provides a separate and highly structured learning
environment for students to meet graduation requirements
and reach post-secondary transition goals. Through a non-
traditional setting, social-emotional learning is emphasized
within the context of academic growth and achievement.
SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES 105

--- Page 108 ---
ALTERNATIVE OFF-CAMPUS PROGRAMMING RELATED SERVICE SUPPORTS
For students requiring intensified support systems and The Stevenson High School Special Education Program, in
supervision, with extensive, related service programming that partnership with the Exceptional Learners Collaborative
needs to be provided in a more immediate and centralized (ELC), offers comprehensive-related service supports
fashion, Stevenson High School supports alternate off-site including speech language, physical/occupational therapy,
placement within a variety of therapeutic settings. prevocational support/coordination and counseling.
TRANSITION PROGRAM HEARING/VISION ITINERANT SERVICES
Stevenson High School’s Transition Service Program Itinerant support services are provided for students
provides individualized skill development for Special challenged with mild to severe vision/hearing exceptionalities,
Education students ages 18 through 21. The curriculum for ensuring access to all school resources. These supports are
the transition program includes learning targets focusing provided through the Exceptional Learners Collaborative
on the development and enhancement of daily living skills (ELC), which supports the provision of direct service and
and vocational training in the areas of work behavior and consultation with Special Education/mainstream staff.
communication.
Placement into the transition program is addressed on an
annual basis by each student’s IEP Team upon completion of
all Stevenson High School graduation requirements.
EXCEPTIONAL LEARNERS COLLABORATIVE (ELC)
The Exceptional Learners’ Collaborative, ELC, is a special
education cooperative and joint agreement between four
school districts located in Vernon Hills (Lake County), Illinois.
The ELC will ensure support for the full continuum of services
essential to providing services to our exceptional learners
in District 125. Related service supports for students with an
IEP include assistive technology consultation, occupational
therapy, physical therapy, speech and language, social work,
vision itinerant, hearing itinerant, psychological services,
audiology and mobility services.
106 SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES

--- Tables on Page 108 ---
Table 1:
106 SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES | 

--- Page 109 ---
APPENDIX 2. District 125 maintains school records for each student.
A school student record is any record that contains
LEGAL NOTICE TO STUDENTS AND PARENTS/GUARDIANS personally identifiable information of a student, or
CONFIDENTIALITY OF STUDENT RECORD INFORMATION information that would link the document to a student,
except for records kept in the sole possession of a
In accordance with the provisions of the Family Educational staff member, which are destroyed no later than the
Rights and Privacy Act and its regulations, the Illinois School student’s graduation or permanent withdrawal, and are not
Student Records Act and its regulations, and Board Policy 7:340, accessible or revealed to anyone other than a temporary
Student Records, and its administrative procedures, each parent/ substitute teacher; video or other electronic recordings
guardian and student is advised as follows: created and maintained by law enforcement professionals
working in the school or for security or safety reasons
1. Directory information may be released to the general
or purposes, provided the information was created at least
public without written consent from a parent/guardian,
in part for Law enforcement or security or safety reasons
unless a parent/guardian requests that such information
or purposes; and electronic recordings made on school
not be released. Any parents/guardians who do not want
buses. These consist of two types of records: permanent
such information to be made public should check “l do
records and temporary records.
not wish to release information” under the Request to
Release Student Information when completing the Online A student’s permanent record consists of:
Registration during the summer. Parents/guardians may
a. basic identifying information, including the student’s name
also make such requests by contacting the District office.
and address, birth date and place, gender,
Directory information is limited to:
b. academic transcript including grades, class rank,
a. Student’s Name
graduation date, grade level achieved, scores on college
b. Student’s Address entrance examinations, and the unique student identifier
c. Parent’s or Guardian’s Name assigned and used by the SIS,
d. Parent’s or Guardian’s Mailing Address c. attendance record,
e. Parent’s or Guardian’s Telephone Number d. health record,
f. Parent’s or Guardian’s Electronic Mail (E-mail) Address e. record of release of permanent record information,
g. Student’s Birth Date and Place f. scores received on all State assessment exams
h. Student’s Gender administered at the high school level, and
i. Student’s Grade Level g. if not maintained in the temporary record, honors and
awards received, information concerning the student’s
j. Student’s Major Field of Study
participation in school-sponsored activities or athletics,
k. Student’s Dates of Attendance in School or offices held in school-sponsored organizations.
l. Student’s Academic Degrees, Honors, and Awards
NO OTHER INFORMATION WILL BE PLACED IN THE STUDENT’S
m. Information in relation to the Student’s participation in PERMANENT RECORD. The permanent records will be kept
School-Sponsored Activities, Organizations, and Athletics by District 125 for sixty (60) years after graduation, a
n. Photographs, videos, or digital images used for transfer, or permanent withdrawal. A student’s temporary
informational or news-related purposes (whether record consists of all information by which the student
by a media outlet or by the school) of the student may be individually identified but is not required to be in the
participating in school or school-sponsored activities, student permanent record. A student’s temporary records
organizations, and athletics that have appeared in school must include:
publications, including but not limited to yearbooks, a. a record of release of temporary record information,
newspapers, or sporting or fine arts programs, except
b. scores received on the State assessment exams
that: (i) no photograph highlighting individual faces will
administered in the elementary grade levels
be used for commercial purposes, including solicitation,
(kindergarten through grade 8)
advertising, promotion or fundraising without the prior,
specific, dated and written consent of the parent/ c. information regarding serious disciplinary infractions
guardian or student, and (ii) no image on a school (those involving drugs, weapons, or bodily harm to
security video recording will be designated as directory another) that resulted in expulsion, suspension, or the
information. imposition of punishment or sanction,
d. information provided under Section 8.6 of the Abused and
Neglected Child Reporting Act,
e. completed home language survey form,
f. health-related information, and
g. Accident reports.
The temporary record may include family background
information, intelligence exam scores (group and individual),
aptitude exam scores, reports of psychological evaluations
(including information on intelligence, personality, and
academic information), elementary and secondary achievement
level exam results, participation in extracurricular
activities, including any offices in school-sponsored
clubs or organizations, honors and awards received,
teacher anecdotal records, other disciplinary information,
special education records, records associated with plans
developed under Section 504, and any verified reports of
information from non-educational persons or organizations
of clear relevance to the education of the student. The
temporary record will be destroyed five years after
graduation, a transfer, or permanent withdrawal.
APPENDIX 107

--- Page 110 ---
A summary of the types of records maintained by District 125 are listed below along with
the officials or custodians of these records:
RECORD TYPE OF RECORD CUSTODIAN OF RECORD
a. Directory Information Permanent & Temporary Registrar
b. Achievement Exam Data Temporary Counselor & Registrar
c. Courses/Grades Permanent Counselor & Registrar
d. Attendance Data Permanent Dean & Registrar
e. Graduation Status Permanent Counselor & Registrar
f. Enrollment/Transfer Information Permanent Registrar & Counselor
g. IQ/Psychological Data Temporary Special Education/Psychologist
h. Family/Social History Temporary Special Education
i. Discipline Temporary Dean
j. Counseling Records Temporary Counselor, Social Worker, Psychologist
k. Activities and Awards Temporary Student Activities Director
l. Transcript Request Forms Temporary Registrar
m. Health Records Permanent School Nurse
n. Health-Related Information Temporary School Nurse
o. Accident Reports Temporary School Nurse
p. IEP’s and Special Education Records Temporary Special Education
q. Section 504 Plans and Records Temporary Student Services/Section 504 Coordinator
r. Home-school communications Temporary Various
3. District employees and school officials who have a current, to the Superintendent. The parent/guardian has the right
demonstrable educational or administrative interest in to present evidence and call witnesses, cross-examine
the student may have access to the student records for witnesses, legal counsel, and receive written statements
the purpose of furthering such interest without parent/ of the decision and the reasons for such decision.
guardian consent. A school official is a Board member, The parent/guardian may insert a written statement of
attorney, auditor, insurance representative, independent reasonable length describing their position on disputed
evaluator, contractor, consultant, volunteer, or other information. The parent/guardian may appeal the decision to
person to whom District 125 has outsourced institutional an administrative tribunal or official designated by the State
services or functions for which District 125 would Board of Education.
otherwise use employees.
8. Parents/guardians have the right to file a complaint with
4. Each parent/guardian of a student under 18 years old has the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures
a right to inspect and copy information in the student’s by District 125 to comply with the requirements of the Family
records. Such requests must be made in writing to the Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). The name and
Principal. Access to the records will be given within 10 address of the Office that administers FERPA is:
business days of District 125’s receipt of the request. Family Policy Compliance Office
Access will not be given with respect to confidential U.S. Department of Education
letters/recommendations concerning post-secondary 400 Maryland Avenue S.W.
institutions, including but not limited to a college/ Washington, D.C. 20202-4605
university. Where parents/guardians are divorced or
9. Upon graduation, transfer or permanent withdrawal of the
separated, both shall be permitted to inspect and copy the
student, District 125 will notify the parents/guardians and
student’s records unless District 125 received a copy of a
the student of the destruction schedule for the student’s
court order indicating otherwise. When a student reaches
permanent and temporary records and of their right to
18 years old, graduates from high school, marries, or enters
request a copy.
military service, all rights and privileges accorded to the
parents/guardians become exclusively those of the student 10. Requests for District 125 to release a student’s records to
and no one other than the student can request records or any person other than the parents/guardians (or student
information in such records. age 18 or older) must be in writing.
5. District 125 charges $0.35 per page for copies of student 11. Upon receipt of a court order of protection, the
records. No parent/guardian or student will be precluded Principal will file it in the records of a student who is
from receiving copies because of financial hardship. the “protected person” under the order of protection.
No information or records shall be released to the
6. Parents/guardians have the right to request a hearing
Respondent named in the order of protection. When a
to challenge the accuracy, relevancy, or propriety of
student who is a “protected person” under an order of
their student’s records, except for academic grades and
protection transfers to public or private school, or as
references to expulsions or out-of-school suspensions
soon as possible, the Principal will, at the request of the
if the challenge is made at the time the student’s school
Petitioner, provide, within 24 hours of the transfer or as
records are forwarded to another school to which the
soon as possible, written notice of the order of protection,
student is transferring. Parents/guardians also have the
along with a certified copy of the order, to the school to
right to insert a written rebuttal concerning the content
which the student is transferring.
of such records.
7. Upon request for a hearing concerning the content of the
student’s records, the Principal will arrange an informal
meeting with the parent/guardian. If thereafter the parent/
guardian wishes to proceed with a hearing, the parent/
guardian must submit such a request in writing
108 APPENDIX

--- Page 111 ---
12. District 125 may grant access to, or release information 19. District 125 will grant access to, or release information
from, student records without parent/guardian consent from student records to juvenile authorities when
or notification to any person for the purpose of research, necessary for the discharge of their official duties upon
statistical reporting, or planning, provided that no student their request before the student’s adjudication, provided
or parents/guardians can be identified from the information they certify in writing that the information will not be
released, and the person to whom the information is disclosed to any other party except as provided under law
released signs an affidavit agreeing to comply with all or order of court. “Juvenile authorities” means:
applicable statutes and rules pertaining to school student (a) a circuit court judge and court staff members
records. designated by the judge;
13. District 125 will grant access to, or release information (b) parties to the proceeding under the Juvenile Court Act
from, a student’s records pursuant to a court order, of 1987 and their attorneys;
provided that the parents/guardians will be given prompt (C ) probation officers and court appointed advocates for
written notice of such order’s terms, the nature and the juvenile authorized by the judge hearing the case;
substance of the information proposed to be released, and
(d) any individual, public or private agency having court-
an opportunity to inspect and copy such records and to
ordered custody of the child;
challenge their contents. However, District 125 will comply
with an ex parte court order requiring it to permit the U.S. (e) any individual, public or private agency providing
Attorney General or designee to have access to a student’s education, medical or mental health service to the child
records without notice to or the consent of the student’s when the requested information is needed to determine
parents/guardians. the appropriate service or treatment for the minor;
(f) any potential placement provider when such
14. District 125 will grant access to, or release information
release is authorized by the court to determine the
from, any student record as specifically required by
appropriateness of the potential placement;
federal or State law. NOTE: IT IS STEVENSON’S POLICY TO
SHARE INFORMATION REGARDING THE CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES OF (g) law enforcement officers and prosecutors;
STUDENTS WITH JUVENILE AUTHORITIES, INCLUDING LOCAL POLICE (h) adult and juvenile prisoner review boards;
DEPARTMENTS, AND PERMITTED BY LAW. (i) authorized military personnel; and
15. District 125 will grant access to, or release information (j) individuals authorized by court.
from, student records to any person possessing a written,
20. District 125 will grant access to, or release information
dated consent, signed by the parents/guardians (or student
from student records, to a SHOCAP (Serious Habitual
age 18 or older) stating to whom the records may be
Offender Comprehensive Action Program) committee member,
released; the information or record to be released; the
provided that:
reason for the release; the right of the parents/guardians
(a) the committee member is a State or local official or
or eligible student to copy the information to be disclosed,
authority;
challenge its contents, limit the consent to designated
record(s) or portion(s) of the information contained in those (b) the disclosure concerns the juvenile justice system’s
records, and revoke the consent in writing at any time; ability to effectively serve, prior to adjudication,
the consequences of a refusal to consent, if any; and the the student whose records are to be released and
date on which the consent expires. One copy of the signed the official or authority certifies in writing that the
consent form will be kept in the temporary records and records will not be disclosed to any other party except
one copy is mailed to the parents/guardians (or student age as provided under State law without the prior written
18 or older) by the Superintendent or designee. consent of the student’s parents/guardians;
(C ) the disclosure’s purpose is limited to identifying
16. District 125 may release student records, or information
serious habitual juvenile offenders and matching those
contained therein, to the official records custodian
offenders with community resources pursuant to
of another Illinois school, or an official with similar
Section 5-145 of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987; and
responsibilities in a school outside of Illinois, in which the
student has enrolled or intends to enroll, upon written (d) the release, transfer, disclosure, or dissemination
request from such official. consistent with the Family Education Rights and
Privacy Act.
17. Prior to the release of any records, or information under
21. Upon their request, military recruiters and institutions of
items 14 and 16 above, District 125 will provide prompt
higher learning will have access to secondary student’s
written notice to the parents/guardians (or student age
names, addresses, and telephone listings, unless an
18 or older) of this intended action. This notification shall
objection is made by the student’s parents/guardians. Any
include a statement concerning the nature and substance of
parents/guardians who do not want such information
the records to be released and the right to inspect, copy,
to be released should check: “I do not wish to release
and challenge the contents. If the release is under
information” under the Request to Release Student
14 above and relates to more than 25 students, a notice
Information when completing the Online Registration
published in the newspaper is sufficient.
during the summer.
18. District 125 may release student records, or information
22. It is the student’s right that no person may condition the
contained therein, in connection with an emergency
granting or withholding of any right, privilege or benefits,
without parent/guardian consent if the knowledge of such
or make as a condition of employment, credit or insurance,
information is necessary to protect the health or safety
the securing by any individual of any information from a
of the student or other persons. District 125 employees
student’s temporary record which such individual may obtain
and school officials shall make this decision in taking into
through the exercise of any right secured under State or
consideration the nature of the emergency, the seriousness
federal law.
of the threat to the health or safety of the student or
other persons, the need for such records to meet the 23. Copies of the Board Policy 7:340, Student Records, and its
emergency, and whether the persons to whom such records administrative procedures are available for inspection in the
are released are in position to deal with the emergency. District’s Administrative Office. Policy 7:340 is also available
District 125 will notify the parents/guardians (or students on the District’s website. If you have any questions, please
age 18 or older) as soon as possible of the information call 847-415-4000 and ask for the Principal.
released, the date of the release, the person, agency
or organization to whom the release was made, and the
purpose of the release.
APPENDIX 109

--- Page 112 ---
COURSE LIST BY NAME COMMUNICATION ARTS
JRN921 JRN922 ADVANCED JOURNALISTIC WRITING (CP)...............................32
APPLIED ARTS ENG341 ENG342 American Studies (AP English Language
and Composition and AP U.S. History) (H) .....................29
BUSINESS EDUCATION COURSE OFFERINGS
ENG371 ENG372 AP English Language and Composition (H) ...............28
BUS251 — ACCOUNTING 1 (CP) ..................................................................................17
ENG451 ENG452 AP Literature and Composition (H) ..................................29
— BUS252 ACCOUNTING 2 (H) ....................................................................................17
JRN911 JRN912 Broadcast Journalism (CP) ..................................................... 32
BUS351 — ADVANCED ACCOUNTING (H) ..............................................................17
ENG501 ENG502 CREATIVE WRITING (CP, A) ................................................................30
BUS131 BUS132 BUSINESS APPLICATIONS AND
— ENG522 CREATIVE WRITING SEMINAR (CP, A) .........................................30
TECHNOLOGY 1 (CP) ................................................................................16
ENG141 ENG142 ENGLISH 9: BELONGING AND BECOMING:
— BUS142 BUSINESS APPLICATIONS AND
TECHNOLOGY 2 (CP) ..............................................................................16 STORIES, CULTURE AND POSSIBILITY.......................................27
BUS371 BUS372 BUSINESS LAW (CP) ................................................................................17 ENG161 ENG162 ENGLISH 9: MIRRORS AND SHADOWS:
BUS411 BUS412 ENTREPRENEURIAL TACTICS (A).....................................................17 REFLECTION, PERCEPTION AND CHOICES ............................27
BUS231 BUS232 ENTREPRENEURSHIP (CP) ..................................................................16 ENG171 ENG172 ENGLISH 9: REIMAGINING THE FUTURE:
BUS171 BUS172 INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS (CP) ..............................................16 INNOVATION, IDENTITY AND OUR WORLD ..............................27
BUS361 BUS362 INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (CP) ..................................................18 ENG151 ENG152 ENGLISH 9: THREADS OF LOYALTY: RELATIONSHIPS,
BUS281 BUS282 MARKETING (CP) ........................................................................................16 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL DYNAMICS .........................................27
BUS301 BUS302 PERSONAL FINANCE (CP) ....................................................................18 JRN901 JRN902 JOURNALISTIC WRITING (CP) ..........................................................32
BUS3Q1 BUS3Q2 PERSONAL FINANCE Online (CP) ................................................18 ENG381 ENG382 JUNIOR ENGLISH (A) ..............................................................................28
ENG311 ENG312 JUNIOR ENGLISH (CP)...........................................................................28
DRIVER EDUCATION COURSE OFFERING ENG681 ENG682 Mythology and Folklore (CP) ................................................31
D/E231 D/E232 DRIVER EDUCATION (CP) ......................................................................19 ENG601 ENG602 POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE (CP) .............30
JRN951 JRN952 PUBLICATION DESIGN AND PRODUCTION (A) .......................32
FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES COURSE OFFERINGS ENG761 ENG762 PUBLIC SPEAKING (CP) ........................................................................30
FCS241 FCS242 BUSINESS OF FASHION AND DESIGN (CP, H) ........................21 ENG231 ENG232 SOPHOMORE ENGLISH (A) .................................................................28
FCS251 FCS252 CLOTHING AND DESIGN 1 (CP) ........................................................21 ENG211 ENG212 SOPHOMORE ENGLISH (CP) ..............................................................28
FCS291 FCS292 CLOTHING AND DESIGN 2 (CP) (H) ...............................................21 — ENG722 TOPICS IN COMPOSITION: FILM GENRES (CP, A) ................31
FCS111 FCS112 FOOD AND NUTRITION (CP)...............................................................22 ENG691 — TOPICS IN COMPOSITION: MEDIA ANALYSIS
FCS221 FCS222 FOOD PREPARATION (CP) ...................................................................22 (CP, A) ................................................................................................................31
FCS321 FCS322 GOURMET FOODS (CP) .........................................................................22 ENG431 ENG432 WORLD Literature (CP, A) ............................................................29
FCS211 FCS212 HUMAN GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT (CP) .........................22 ENG541 ENG542 WRITING FOR COLLEGE (CP) ...........................................................31
FCS231 FCS232 INTERIOR DESIGN (CP) ..........................................................................21
FCS411 FCS412 LIFE BY DESIGN (CP) .............................................................................22
COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND
FCS311 FCS312 TEACHING YOUNG CHILDREN 1 (CP) ...........................................23 TECHNOLOGY COURSE OFFERINGS
FCS331 FCS332 TEACHING YOUNG CHILDREN 2 (CP) (H) .................................23
COMPUTER SCIENCE COURSE OFFERINGS
LAKE COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL TECHNOLOGY CAMPUS CSC391 CSC392 AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A (H)........................................................35
COURSE OFFERINGS CSC371 CSC372 AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES (H) ..............................36
VOC431 VOC432 AUTOMOTIVE COLLISION REPAIR 1 ..............................................24 CSC161 CSC162 Computer Programming 1 (CP) ................................................35
VOC451 VOC452 AUTOMOTIVE COLLISION REPAIR 2 .............................................24 CSC181 CSC182 Computer Programming 2 (CP)...............................................35
VOC471 VOC472 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE 1 ......................................................................24 CSC421 CSC422 Computer Science Algorithms (H) ....................................36
VOC491 VOC492 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE 2.....................................................................24 CSC251 CSC252 MOBILE APP DEVELOPMENT (CP) ................................................36
VOC291 VOC292 CERTIFIED NURSE ASSISTING ........................................................24
VOC071 VOC072 COMPUTER SUPPORT SERVICES ..................................................24 ENGINEERING COURSE OFFERINGS
VOC511 VOC512 CONSTRUCTION SKILLS AND MANAGEMENT 1 ...................24 TEC241 TEC242 ADVANCED ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN (CP) ............................38
VOC531 VOC532 CONSTRUCTION SKILLS AND MANAGEMENT 2 ..................24 TEC141 TEC142 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN (CP) ........................................................38
VOC591 VOC592 COSMETOLOGY 1 .......................................................................................24 TEC261 TEC262 Civil Engineering and Architecture–PLTW (H) ....39
VOC611 VOC612 COSMETOLOGY 2 .....................................................................................24 TEC351 TEC352 Computer Integrated Manufacturing–
PLTW (H) ........................................................................................................39
VOC111 VOC112 CRIMINAL JUSTICE ..................................................................................24
TEC291 TEC292 Electrical Engineering–PLTW (H) .....................................39
VOC951 VOC952 CULINARY ARTS 1 .....................................................................................24
TEC401 TEC402 ENGINEERING DESIGN AND
VOC971 VOC972 CULINARY ARTS 2 ...................................................................................24
DEVELOPMENT–PLTW (H) .................................................................39
VOC191 VOC192 cybersecurity .......................................................................................24
TEC151 TEC152 introduction to Engineering Design–PLTW (CP) 38
VOC911 VOC912 EARLY EDUCATION AND TEACHING 1 .........................................24
TEC301 TEC302 Principles of Engineering–PLTW (H) ..............................39
VOC931 VOC932 EARLY EDUCATION AND TEACHING 2........................................24
VOC311 VOC312 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES .................................................24
TECHNOLOGY COURSE OFFERINGS
VOC221 VOC222 FIRE FIGHTING............................................................................................24
TEC501 TEC502 GAME DEVELOPMENT 1 (CP) .............................................................41
VOC171 VOC172 GAME PROGRAMMING AND VIRTUALIZATION ........................24
TEC511 TEC512 GAME DEVELOPMENT 2 (CP) ............................................................41
VOC121 VOC122 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CSI .......................................................24
TEC111 TEC112 Motion Graphics and Visual Effects (CP) ................42
VOC321 VOC322 MEDICAL ASSISTING ..............................................................................24
TEC181 TEC182 PRINT MEDIA 1 (CP) .................................................................................41
VOC671 VOC672 MULTIMEDIA DESIGN 1 ..........................................................................24
TEC251 TEC252 PRINT MEDIA 2 (CP) ................................................................................41
VOC691 VOC692 MULTIMEDIA DESIGN 2 .........................................................................24
TEC121 TEC122 Video Editing and Production (CP) ...................................42
VOC711 voc712 Principles of biomedical science ....................................24
TEC191 TEC192 Virtual Reality (CP) .........................................................................42
VOC871 VOC872 WELDING AND FABRICATION 1 .......................................................24
TEC171 TEC172 WEB DEVELOPMENT 1 (CP) ...............................................................41
VOC891 VOC892 WELDING AND FABRICATION 2 ......................................................24
TEC281 TEC282 WEB DEVELOPMENT 2 (CP) .............................................................41
KEY: (CP) College Prep, (A) Accelerated, (H) Honors
110 COURSE LIST BY NAME

--- Page 113 ---
FINE ARTS VISUAL ARTS COURSE OFFERINGS
ART631 ART632 Advanced Ceramics, Metals and
Sculpture (CP) ......................................................................................47
DANCE COURSE OFFERINGS
ART621 ART622 ADVANCED DRAWING, PAINTING and
DNC501 DNC502 CONCERT DANCE (H) .............................................................................52
MIXED MEDIA (CP) ....................................................................................47
DNC101 DNC102 DANCE 1 (CP) ................................................................................................51
ART801 ART802 AP ART: DRAWING, 2D and 3D DESIGN (H) .........................47
DNC201 DNC202 DANCE 2 (CP) ..............................................................................................51
ART101 ART102 ART AND DESIGN (CP) ..........................................................................46
DNC301 DNC302 DANCE 3 (CP) ..............................................................................................51
ART201 ART202 CERAMICS (CP) ...........................................................................................46
DNC401 DNC402 DANCE 4 (CP) .............................................................................................52
ART221 ART222 DRAWING (CP) ............................................................................................46
DNC601 DNC602 DANCE LEADERSHIP (CP) ...................................................................52
ART241 ART242 METALS AND JEWELRY (CP) ...........................................................47
DNC321 DNC322 JAZZ FUSION (CP) ...................................................................................52
ART611 ART612 Mixed Media (CP) ....................................................................................46
DNC311 DNC312 Technical Skills (CP) .....................................................................52
ART261 ART262 PAINTING (CP) .............................................................................................46
ART281 ART282 SCULPTURE (CP) ......................................................................................46
MEDIA ARTS COURSE OFFERINGS
ART531 ART532 2D ANIMATION (CP) .................................................................................49
ART541 ART542 3D ANIMATION (CP) .................................................................................49 MATHEMATICS
ART421 ART422 ADVANCED PHOTOGRAPHY AND MTH441 MTH442 ADVANCED MATHEMATICAL DECISION MAKING (CP) .......67
DIGITAL DESIGN (A).................................................................................48
MTH151 MTH152 ALGEBRA 1 (CP) .........................................................................................64
ART721 ART722 AP ART HISTORY (H) ...............................................................................49
MTH351 MTH352 ALGEBRA 2 (CP) ........................................................................................65
ART871 ART872 AP PHOTOGRAPHY AND DIGITAL DESIGN (H) .......................48
MTH171 MTH172 ALGEBRA 2 AB/BC (CP) .......................................................................65
ART501 ART502 Digital Art and Design 1 (CP) ..................................................49
MTH471 MTH472 AP CALCULUS AB (H) ............................................................................68
ART511 ART512 Digital Art and Design 2 (CP) .................................................49
MTH491 MTH492 AP CALCULUS BC (H) ............................................................................68
ART401 ART402 PHOTOGRAPHY 1 (CP) ............................................................................48
MTH411 MTH412 AP PRECALCULUS AB (H)...................................................................66
ART411 ART412 PHOTOGRAPHY 2 (CP) ..........................................................................48
MTH421 MTH422 AP PRECALCULUS BC (H) ..................................................................66
MTH461 MTH462 AP STATISTICS (H) ...................................................................................67
MUSIC COURSE OFFERINGS
— MTH592 COLLEGE LINEAR ALGEBRA (H) ....................................................68
MUS211 MUS212 ADVANCED CHORUS (CP, A) ..............................................................55
MTH591 — COLLEGE MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS (H) ..............................68
MUS471 MUS472 Advanced music production (H) ...........................................58
MTH481 MTH482 DATA SCIENCE (CP) ................................................................................67
MUS801 MUS802 AP MUSIC THEORY (H) ..........................................................................58
MTH251 MTH252 GEOMETRY (CP) .........................................................................................64
MUS311 MUS312 CONCERT ORCHESTRA (CP) .............................................................56
MTH271 MTH272 GEOMETRY AB/BC (CP) .......................................................................64
MUS101 MUS102 FRESHMAN BAND (CP) ..........................................................................54
MTH431 MTH432 MATHEMATICAL MODELING AND DESIGN (CP) .....................67
MUS421 MUS422 GUITAR 1 (CP) ..............................................................................................57
MTH451 MTH452 Precalculus (CP) ................................................................................65
MUS461 MUS462 GUITAR 2 (CP) .............................................................................................57
MUS431 MUS432 Music Production 1 (CP) ...............................................................58
MUS451 MUS452 Music Production 2 (CP) ..............................................................58 MULTILINGUAL LEARNING
MUS441 MUS442 PATRIOT GUITAR ENSEMBLE (CP, A) ...........................................57
FRENCH COURSE OFFERINGS
MUS321 MUS322 PATRIOT ORCHESTRA (CP, A) ...........................................................56
FRE601 FRE602 AP FRENCH LANGUAGE (H) ...............................................................72
MUS221 MUS222 PATRIOT SINGERS (CP, A) ...................................................................55
FRE101 FRE102 FRENCH 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................72
MUS401 MUS402 PIANO 1 (CP).................................................................................................58
FRE211 FRE212 FRENCH 2 (A)..............................................................................................72
MUS201 MUS202 STEVENSON Singers (CP) ...............................................................55
FRE311 FRE312 FRENCH 3 (A)..............................................................................................72
MUS301 MUS302 Stevenson Orchestra (CP) .......................................................56
MUS121 MUS122 SYMPHONIC BAND (CP) ........................................................................54 GERMAN COURSE OFFERINGS
MUS331 MUS332 SYMPHONIC ORCHESTRA (CP) ........................................................56 GRE601 GRE602 AP GERMAN LANGUAGE and culture (H) ..........................73
MUS141 MUS142 wind ensemble (CP, A) ....................................................................55 GRE101 GRE102 GERMAN 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................73
MUS131 MUS132 wind symphony (CP) ..........................................................................55 GRE211 GRE212 GERMAN 2 (A) .............................................................................................73
GRE311 GRE312 GERMAN 3 (A) .............................................................................................73
THEATRE COURSE OFFERINGS
THR101 THR102 ACTING 1: confidence and collaboration (CP) .......60 HEBREW COURSE OFFERINGS
THR111 THR112 ACTING 2: Character and comedy (CP) ............................60 HBR101 HBR102 HEBREW 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................74
THR211 — ACTING 3 (CP) .............................................................................................61 HBR211 HBR212 HEBREW 2 (A) .............................................................................................74
— THR212 ACTING 4 (CP)..............................................................................................61 HBR311 HBR312 HEBREW 3 (A) .............................................................................................74
THR401 THR402 ADVANCED ACTING (H) ..........................................................................61 HBR411 HBR412 HEBREW 4 (A) .............................................................................................74
THR121 THR122 ENTERTAINMENT PRODUCTION AND DESIGN (CP) ...........60
THR601 THR602 LEADERSHIP IN THEATRE STUDIES (CP) .................................61 LATIN COURSE OFFERINGS
THR301 THR302 Theatre Leadership: Directing and LAT621 LAT622 AP LATIN (H) ................................................................................................75
Management (CP) ...................................................................................61 LAT101 LAT102 LATIN 1 (CP) .................................................................................................75
LAT211 LAT212 LATIN 2 (A) ....................................................................................................75
LAT311 LAT312 LATIN 3 (A) ....................................................................................................75
KEY: (CP) College Prep, (A) Accelerated, (H) Honors
COURSE LIST BY NAME 111

--- Page 114 ---
MANDARIN CHINESE COURSE OFFERINGS SCIENCE
CHI601 CHI602 AP CHINESE LANGUAGE AND CULTURE (H) ..........................77
SCI631 SCI632 AP BIOLOGY (H) ..........................................................................................90
CHI611 CHI612 Chinese Literature, Media and Culture (H) ..............77
SCI63E1 SCI63E2 AP BIOLOGY EARLY BIRD (H) ............................................................90
CHI351 CHI352 Intermediate Mandarin Chinese
SCI651 SCI652 AP CHEMISTRY (H) ....................................................................................91
Language Arts (A) ..............................................................................76
SCI65E1 SCI65E2 AP CHEMISTRY EARLY BIRD (H).......................................................91
CHI101 CHI102 MANDARIN CHINESE 1 (CP) ................................................................75
SCI641 SCI642 AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (H) ................................................91
CHI211 CHI212 MANDARIN CHINESE 2 (A) ..................................................................76
SCI611 SCI612 AP PHYSICS 1 (H) .....................................................................................90
CHI311 CHI312 MANDARIN CHINESE 3 (A) ..................................................................76
SCI61E1 SCI61E2 AP PHYSICS 1 EARLY BIRD (H) ........................................................90
CHI411 CHI412 MANDARIN CHINESE 4 (A) ..................................................................76
SCI681 SCI682 AP PHYSICS 2 (H) ....................................................................................90
SPANISH COURSE OFFERINGS SCI661 SCI662 AP PHYSICS C (H) .....................................................................................91
SPA511 SPA512 ADVANCED SPANISH CONVERSATION SCI66E1 SCI66E2 AP PHYSICS C EARLY BIRD (H) ........................................................91
AND CULTURE (CP) .................................................................................79 SCI111 SCI112 BIOLOGY (CP) ...............................................................................................89
SPA601 SPA602 AP SPANISH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE (H) ..........................79 SCI211 SCI212 CHEMISTRY (CP) ........................................................................................89
SPA611 SPA612 AP SPANISH LITERATURE AND CULTURE (H).......................79 SCI271 SCI272 EARTH SCIENCE (CP) ............................................................................89
SPA351 SPA352 Intermediate SPANISH Language Arts (A) ...................78 SCI671 SCI672 EARTH SCIENCE DUAL Credit (H)..............................................90
SPA101 SPA102 SPANISH 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................77 SCI531 SCI532 Horticulture (CP) ...............................................................................89
SPA201 SPA202 SPANISH 2 (CP) ..........................................................................................77 SCI521 SCI522 HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY (A) ..................................89
SPA211 SPA212 SPANISH 2-3 (A) ........................................................................................78 SCI401 SCI402 PHYSICS (CP) ..............................................................................................89
SPA301 SPA302 SPANISH 3 (CP) .........................................................................................78 SCI351 SCI352 Science research (CP) ..................................................................89
SPA311 SPA312 SPANISH 3-4 (A) ........................................................................................78
SPA401 SPA402 SPANISH 4 (CP) .........................................................................................79
SOCIAL STUDIES
ELD COURSE OFFERINGS SOC691 SOC692 AP African American Studies (H) .........................................95
ELD561 ELD562 CURRENT EVENTS (CP) ........................................................................81 SOC581 SOC582 American Studies (AP U.S. History and
ELD161 ELD162 English Language Development (ELD) 1 (CP) ..........80 AP English Language and Composition) (H) .............97
ELD261 ELD262 English Language Development (ELD) 2 (CP) .........80 SOC631 SOC632 AP Comparative Government and politics (H) .......96
ELD361 ELD362 English Language Development (ELD) 3 SOC63Q1 SOC63Q2 AP Comparative Government and
Language (CP) ..........................................................................................81 politics Online (H) .............................................................................96
ELD371 ELD372 English Language Development (ELD) 3 SOC601 SOC602 AP EUROPEAN HISTORY (H) ..............................................................95
Literature (CP) .......................................................................................81 SOC681 SOC682 AP GOVERNMENT–UNITED STATES (H) ..................................100
ELD461 ELD462 English Language Development (ELD) 4 (CP) ..........81 SOC6Q1 SOC6Q2 AP GOVERNMENT-UNITED STATES Online (H) .................100
SOC611 SOC612 AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY (H) ..............................................................95
SOC641 SOC642 AP MACROECONOMICS (H) .................................................................98
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HEALTH EDUCATION
SOC651 SOC652 AP MICROECONOMICS (H) ...................................................................98
PED331 PED332 ADVENTURE EDUCATION (CP) .........................................................84 SOC661 SOC662 AP PSYCHOLOGY (H) ..............................................................................99
PED111 PED112 ALTERNATIVE PHYSICAL EDUCATION (CP) .............................86 SOC6B1 SOC6B2 AP PSYCHOLOGY–BLENDED (H) ....................................................99
PED41L PED42L ALTERNATIVE PHYSICAL EDUCATION SOC621 SOC622 AP U.S. HISTORY (H) ................................................................................96
LEADERSHIP (CP) .....................................................................................86
SOC511 SOC512 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (CP) .............................................................94
PED231 PED232 APPLIED HEALTH (CP) ..........................................................................86
SOC411 SOC412 ECONOMICS (CP) .......................................................................................97
PED451 PED452 CHOICE P.E. (CP) .......................................................................................85
SOC531 SOC532 GLOBAL RELATIONS (CP)....................................................................94
PED031 PED032 CHOICE P.E. Early Bird (CP) ........................................................85
SOC401 SOC402 GOVERNMENT (CP) ..................................................................................98
PED121 PED122 FRESHMAN FOUNDATIONAL FITNESS
SOC431 SOC432 Law In American Society (CP) .................................................94
CHOICE P.E. (CP) .......................................................................................84
SOC671 SOC672 PHILOSOPHY AND POLITICAL THEORY (H) .............................98
PED201 PED202 HEALTH EDUCATION (CP)....................................................................86
SOC561 SOC562 POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE (CP) .............99
PED501 — LIFEGUARD TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION (CP) ...............85
SOC551 SOC552 PSYCHOLOGY (CP) ...................................................................................94
PED61L PED62L PHYSICAL EDUCATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING (CP) .......85
SOC541 SOC542 SOCIOLOGY (CP) ........................................................................................95
PED71L PED72L POOL LEADERSHIP (CP) ......................................................................86
SOC571 SOC572 SOCIOLOGY (H) ...........................................................................................97
PED81L PED82L SENIOR LEADERSHIP (CP) .................................................................85
SOC321 SOC322 U.S. HISTORY (CP) .....................................................................................96
SOC101 SOC102 WORLD HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY (CP) ................................94
SOC501 SOC502 WORLD RELIGIONS (CP) ......................................................................95
KEY: (CP) College Prep, (A) Accelerated, (H) Honors
112 COURSE LIST BY NAME

--- Page 115 ---
COURSE LIST BY NUMBER ELD161 ELD162 English Language Development (ELD) 1 (CP) ..........80
ELD261 ELD262 English Language Development (ELD) 2 (CP) .........80
ELD361 ELD362 English Language Development (ELD) 3
ART101 ART102 ART AND DESIGN (CP) ..........................................................................46
Language (CP) ..........................................................................................81
ART201 ART202 CERAMICS (CP) ...........................................................................................46
ELD371 ELD372 English Language Development (ELD) 3
ART221 ART222 DRAWING (CP) ............................................................................................46
LITERATURE (CP) .......................................................................................81
ART241 ART242 METALS AND JEWELRY (CP) ...........................................................47
ELD461 ELD462 English Language Development (ELD) 4 (CP) ..........81
ART261 ART262 PAINTING (CP) .............................................................................................46
ELD561 ELD562 CURRENT EVENTS (CP) ........................................................................81
ART281 ART282 SCULPTURE (CP) ......................................................................................46
ENG141 ENG142 ENGLISH 9: BELONGING AND BECOMING:
ART401 ART402 PHOTOGRAPHY 1 (CP) ............................................................................48 STORIES, CULTURE AND POSSIBILITY.......................................27
ART411 ART412 PHOTOGRAPHY 2 (CP) ..........................................................................48 ENG151 ENG152 ENGLISH 9: THREADS OF LOYALTY: RELATIONSHIPS,
ART421 ART422 ADVANCED PHOTOGRAPHY AND COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL DYNAMICS .........................................27
DIGITAL DESIGN (A).................................................................................48
ENG161 ENG162 ENGLISH 9: MIRRORS AND SHADOWS:
ART501 ART502 Digital Art and Design 1 (CP) ..................................................49
REFLECTION, PERCEPTION AND CHOICES ............................27
ART511 ART512 Digital Art and Design 2 (CP) .................................................49
ENG171 ENG172 ENGLISH 9: REIMAGINING THE FUTURE:
ART531 ART532 2D ANIMATION (CP) .................................................................................49
INNOVATION, IDENTITY AND OUR WORLD ..............................27
ART541 ART542 3D ANIMATION (CP) .................................................................................49
ENG211 ENG212 SOPHOMORE ENGLISH (CP) ..............................................................28
ART611 ART612 Mixed Media (CP) ....................................................................................46
ENG231 ENG232 SOPHOMORE ENGLISH (A) .................................................................28
ART621 ART622 ADVANCED DRAWING, PAINTING and
ENG311 ENG312 JUNIOR ENGLISH (CP)...........................................................................28
MIXED MEDIA (CP) ....................................................................................47
ENG341 ENG342 American Studies (AP English Language
ART631 ART632 Advanced Ceramics, Metals and
and Composition and AP U.S. History) (H) .....................29
Sculpture (CP) ......................................................................................47
ENG371 ENG372 AP English Language and Composition (H) ...............28
ART721 ART722 AP ART HISTORY (H) ...............................................................................49
ENG381 ENG382 JUNIOR ENGLISH (A) ..............................................................................28
ART801 ART802 AP ART: DRAWING, 2D and 3D DESIGN (H) .........................47
ENG431 ENG432 WORLD Literature (CP, A) ............................................................29
ART871 ART872 AP PHOTOGRAPHY AND DIGITAL DESIGN (H) .......................48
ENG451 ENG452 AP Literature and Composition (H) ..................................29
BUS131 BUS132 BUSINESS APPLICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY 1 (CP) ......16
ENG501 ENG502 CREATIVE WRITING (CP, A) ................................................................30
— BUS142 BUSINESS APPLICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY 2 (CP) ....16
— ENG522 CREATIVE WRITING SEMINAR (CP, A) .........................................30
BUS171 BUS172 INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS (CP) ..............................................16
ENG541 ENG542 WRITING FOR COLLEGE (CP) ...........................................................31
BUS231 BUS232 ENTREPRENEURSHIP (CP) ..................................................................16
ENG601 ENG602 POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE (CP) .............30
BUS251 — ACCOUNTING 1 (CP) ..................................................................................17
ENG681 ENG682 Mythology and Folklore (CP) ................................................31
— BUS252 ACCOUNTING 2 (H) ....................................................................................17
ENG691 — TOPICS IN COMPOSITION: MEDIA ANALYSIS (CP, A) ..........31
BUS281 BUS282 MARKETING (CP) ........................................................................................16
— ENG722 TOPICS IN COMPOSITION: FILM GENRES (CP, A) ................31
BUS301 BUS302 PERSONAL FINANCE (CP) ....................................................................18
ENG761 ENG762 PUBLIC SPEAKING (CP) ........................................................................30
BUS351 — ADVANCED ACCOUNTING (H) ..............................................................17
FCS111 FCS112 FOOD AND NUTRITION (CP)...............................................................22
BUS361 BUS362 INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (CP) ..................................................18
FCS211 FCS212 HUMAN GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT (CP) .........................22
BUS371 BUS372 BUSINESS LAW (CP) ................................................................................17
FCS221 FCS222 FOOD PREPARATION (CP) ...................................................................22
BUS3Q1 BUS3Q2 PERSONAL FINANCE Online (CP) ................................................18
FCS231 FCS232 INTERIOR DESIGN (CP) ..........................................................................21
BUS411 BUS412 ENTREPRENEURIAL TACTICS (A).....................................................17
FCS241 FCS242 BUSINESS OF FASHION AND DESIGN (CP, H) ........................21
CHI101 CHI102 MANDARIN CHINESE 1 (CP) ................................................................75
FCS251 FCS252 CLOTHING AND DESIGN 1 (CP) ........................................................21
CHI211 CHI212 MANDARIN CHINESE 2 (A) ..................................................................76
FCS291 FCS292 CLOTHING AND DESIGN 2 (CP) (H) ...............................................21
CHI311 CHI312 MANDARIN CHINESE 3 (A) ..................................................................76
FCS311 FCS312 TEACHING YOUNG CHILDREN 1 (CP) ...........................................23
CHI351 CHI352 Intermediate Mandarin Chinese
FCS321 FCS322 GOURMET FOODS (CP) .........................................................................22
Language Arts (A) ..............................................................................76
FCS331 FCS332 TEACHING YOUNG CHILDREN 2 (CP) (H) .................................23
CHI411 CHI412 MANDARIN CHINESE 4 (A) ..................................................................76
FCS411 FCS412 LIFE BY DESIGN (CP) .............................................................................22
CHI601 CHI602 AP CHINESE LANGUAGE AND CULTURE (H) ..........................77
FRE101 FRE102 FRENCH 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................72
CHI611 CHI612 Chinese Literature, Media and Culture (H) ..............77
FRE211 FRE212 FRENCH 2 (A)..............................................................................................72
CSC161 CSC162 Computer Programming 1 (CP) ................................................35
FRE311 FRE312 FRENCH 3 (A)..............................................................................................72
CSC181 CSC182 Computer Programming 2 (CP)...............................................35
FRE601 FRE602 AP FRENCH LANGUAGE (H) ...............................................................72
CSC251 CSC252 MOBILE APP DEVELOPMENT (CP) ................................................36
GRE101 GRE102 GERMAN 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................73
CSC371 CSC372 AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES (H) ..............................36
GRE211 GRE212 GERMAN 2 (A) .............................................................................................73
CSC391 CSC392 AP COMPUTER SCIENCE A (H)........................................................35
GRE311 GRE312 GERMAN 3 (A) .............................................................................................73
CSC421 CSC422 Computer Science Algorithms (H) ....................................36
GRE601 GRE602 AP GERMAN LANGUAGE and culture (H) ..........................73
D/E231 D/E232 DRIVER EDUCATION (CP) ......................................................................19
HBR101 HBR102 HEBREW 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................74
DNC101 DNC102 DANCE 1 (CP) ................................................................................................51
HBR211 HBR212 HEBREW 2 (A) .............................................................................................74
DNC201 DNC202 DANCE 2 (CP) ..............................................................................................51
HBR311 HBR312 HEBREW 3 (A) .............................................................................................74
DNC301 DNC302 DANCE 3 (CP) ..............................................................................................51
HBR411 HBR412 HEBREW 4 (A) .............................................................................................74
DNC311 DNC312 Technical Skills (CP) .....................................................................52
JRN901 JRN902 JOURNALISTIC WRITING (CP) ..........................................................32
DNC321 DNC322 JAZZ FUSION (CP) ...................................................................................52
JRN911 JRN912 Broadcast Journalism (CP) ......................................................32
DNC401 DNC402 DANCE 4 (CP) .............................................................................................52
JRN921 JRN922 ADVANCED JOURNALISTIC WRITING (CP)...............................32
DNC501 DNC502 CONCERT DANCE (H) .............................................................................52
JRN951 JRN952 PUBLICATION DESIGN AND PRODUCTION (A) .......................32
DNC601 DNC602 DANCE LEADERSHIP (CP) ...................................................................52
LAT101 LAT102 LATIN 1 (CP) .................................................................................................75
LAT211 LAT212 LATIN 2 (A) ....................................................................................................75
LAT311 LAT312 LATIN 3 (A) ....................................................................................................75
LAT621 LAT622 AP LATIN (H) ................................................................................................75
KEY: (CP) College Prep, (A) Accelerated, (H) Honors
COURSE LIST BY NUMBER 113

--- Page 116 ---
MTH151 MTH152 Algebra 1 (CP) .........................................................................................64 SCI111 SCI112 BIOLOGY (CP) ...............................................................................................89
MTH171 MTH172 Algebra 2 AB/BC (CP) .......................................................................65 SCI211 SCI212 CHEMISTRY (CP) ........................................................................................89
MTH251 MTH252 Geometry (CP) .........................................................................................64 SCI271 SCI272 EARTH SCIENCE (CP) ............................................................................89
MTH271 MTH272 Geometry AB/BC (CP) .......................................................................64 SCI351 SCI352 Science research (CP) ..................................................................89
MTH351 MTH352 Algebra 2 (CP) ........................................................................................65 SCI401 SCI402 PHYSICS (CP) ..............................................................................................89
MTH411 MTH412 AP Precalculus AB (H)...................................................................66 SCI521 SCI522 HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY (A) ..................................89
MTH421 MTH422 AP Precalculus BC (H) ..................................................................66 SCI531 SCI532 Horticulture (CP) ...............................................................................89
MTH431 MTH432 Mathematical Modeling and Design (CP) .....................67 SCI611 SCI612 AP PHYSICS 1 (H) .....................................................................................90
MTH441 MTH442 Advanced Mathematical Decision Making (CP) .......67 SCI61E1 SCI61E2 AP PHYSICS 1 EARLY BIRD (H) ........................................................90
mTH451 MTH452 Precalculus (CP) ................................................................................65 SCI631 SCI632 AP BIOLOGY (H) ..........................................................................................90
MTH461 MTH462 AP Statistics (H) ...................................................................................67 SCI63E1 SCI63E2 AP BIOLOGY EARLY BIRD (H) ............................................................90
MTH471 MTH472 AP Calculus AB (H) ............................................................................68 SCI641 SCI642 AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (H) ................................................91
MTH481 MTH482 Data Science (CP) ................................................................................67 SCI651 SCI652 AP CHEMISTRY (H) ....................................................................................91
MTH491 MTH492 AP Calculus BC (H) ............................................................................68 SCI65E1 SCI65E2 AP CHEMISTRY EARLY BIRD (H).......................................................91
MTH591 — COLLEGE MULTIVARIABLE CALCULUS (H) ..............................68 SCI661 SCI662 AP PHYSICS C (H) .....................................................................................91
— MTH592 College Linear Algebra (H) ....................................................68 SCI66E1 SCI66E2 AP PHYSICS C EARLY BIRD (H) ........................................................91
MUS101 MUS102 FRESHMAN BAND (CP) ..........................................................................54 SCI671 SCI672 EARTH SCIENCE DUAL Credit (H)..............................................90
MUS121 MUS122 SYMPHONIC BAND (CP) ........................................................................54 SCI681 SCI682 AP PHYSICS 2 (H) ....................................................................................90
MUS131 MUS132 wind symphony (CP) ..........................................................................55 SOC101 SOC102 WORLD HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY (CP) ................................94
MUS141 MUS142 wind ensemble (CP, A) ....................................................................55 SOC321 SOC322 U.S. HISTORY (CP) .....................................................................................96
MUS201 MUS202 STEVENSON Singers (CP) ...............................................................55 SOC401 SOC402 GOVERNMENT (CP) ..................................................................................98
MUS211 MUS212 ADVANCED CHORUS (CP, A) ..............................................................55 SOC411 SOC412 ECONOMICS (CP) .......................................................................................97
MUS221 MUS222 PATRIOT SINGERS (CP, A) ...................................................................55 SOC431 SOC432 Law In American Society (CP) .................................................94
MUS301 MUS302 Stevenson Orchestra (CP) .......................................................56 SOC501 SOC502 WORLD RELIGIONS (CP) ......................................................................95
MUS311 MUS312 CONCERT ORCHESTRA (CP) .............................................................56 SOC511 SOC512 CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (CP) .............................................................94
MUS321 MUS322 PATRIOT ORCHESTRA (CP, A) ...........................................................56 SOC531 SOC532 GLOBAL RELATIONS (CP)....................................................................94
MUS331 MUS332 SYMPHONIC ORCHESTRA (CP) ........................................................56 SOC541 SOC542 SOCIOLOGY (CP) ........................................................................................95
MUS401 MUS402 PIANO 1 (CP).................................................................................................58 SOC551 SOC552 PSYCHOLOGY (CP) ...................................................................................94
MUS421 MUS422 GUITAR 1 (CP) ..............................................................................................57 SOC561 SOC562 POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE (CP) .............99
MUS431 MUS432 Music Production 1 (CP) ...............................................................58 SOC571 SOC572 SOCIOLOGY (H) ...........................................................................................97
MUS441 MUS442 PATRIOT GUITAR ENSEMBLE (CP, A) ...........................................57 SOC581 SOC582 American Studies (AP U.S. History and
MUS451 MUS452 Music Production 2 (CP) ..............................................................58 AP English Language and Composition) (H) .............97
MUS461 MUS462 GUITAR 2 (CP) .............................................................................................57 SOC601 SOC602 AP EUROPEAN HISTORY (H) ..............................................................95
MUS471 MUS472 Advanced music production (H) ...........................................58 SOC611 SOC612 AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY (H) ..............................................................95
MUS801 MUS802 AP MUSIC THEORY (H) ..........................................................................58 SOC621 SOC622 AP U.S. HISTORY (H) ................................................................................96
PED031 PED032 CHOICE P.E. Early Bird (CP) ........................................................85 SOC631 SOC632 AP Comparative Government and
politics (H) ................................................................................................96
PED111 PED112 ALTERNATIVE PHYSICAL EDUCATION (CP) .............................86
SOC63Q1 SOC63Q2 AP Comparative Government and
PED121 PED122 FRESHMAN FOUNDATIONAL FITNESS
politics Online (H) .............................................................................96
CHOICE P.E. (CP) .......................................................................................84
SOC641 SOC642 AP MACROECONOMICS (H) .................................................................98
PED201 PED202 HEALTH EDUCATION (CP)....................................................................86
SOC651 SOC652 AP MICROECONOMICS (H) ...................................................................98
PED231 PED232 APPLIED HEALTH (CP) ..........................................................................86
SOC661 SOC662 AP PSYCHOLOGY (H) ..............................................................................99
PED331 PED332 ADVENTURE EDUCATION (CP) .........................................................84
SOC671 SOC672 PHILOSOPHY AND POLITICAL THEORY (H) .............................98
PED41L PED42L ALTERNATIVE PHYSICAL EDUCATION
LEADERSHIP (CP) .....................................................................................86 SOC681 SOC682 AP GOVERNMENT–UNITED STATES (H) ..................................100
PED451 PED452 CHOICE P.E. (CP) .......................................................................................85 SOC691 SOC692 AP African American Studies (H) .........................................95
PED501 — LIFEGUARD TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION (CP) ...............85 SOC6B1 SOC6B2 AP PSYCHOLOGY–BLENDED (H) ....................................................99
PED61L PED62L PHYSICAL EDUCATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING (CP) .......85 SOC6Q1 SOC6Q2 AP GOVERNMENT-UNITED STATES Online (H) .................100
PED71L PED72L POOL LEADERSHIP (CP) ......................................................................86 SPA101 SPA102 SPANISH 1 (CP) ...........................................................................................77
PED81L PED82L SENIOR LEADERSHIP (CP) .................................................................85 SPA201 SPA202 SPANISH 2 (CP) ..........................................................................................77
SPA211 SPA212 SPANISH 2-3 (A) ........................................................................................78
SPA301 SPA302 SPANISH 3 (CP) .........................................................................................78
SPA311 SPA312 SPANISH 3-4 (A) ........................................................................................78
SPA351 SPA352 Intermediate SPANISH Language Arts (A) ...................78
SPA401 SPA402 SPANISH 4 (CP) .........................................................................................79
SPA511 SPA512 ADVANCED SPANISH CONVERSATION
AND CULTURE (CP) .................................................................................79
SPA601 SPA602 AP SPANISH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE (H) ..........................79
SPA611 SPA612 AP SPANISH LITERATURE AND CULTURE (H).......................79
KEY: (CP) College Prep, (A) Accelerated, (H) Honors
114 COURSE LIST BY NUMBER

--- Page 117 ---
TEC111 TEC112 Motion Graphics and Visual Effects (CP) ................42
TEC121 TEC122 Video Editing and Production (CP) ...................................42
TEC141 TEC142 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN (CP) ........................................................38
TEC151 TEC152 introduction to Engineering
Design–PLTW (CP) ...............................................................................38
TEC171 TEC172 WEB DEVELOPMENT 1 (CP) ...............................................................41
TEC181 TEC182 PRINT MEDIA 1 (CP) .................................................................................41
TEC191 TEC192 Virtual Reality (CP) .........................................................................42
TEC241 TEC242 ADVANCED ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN (CP) ............................38
TEC251 TEC252 PRINT MEDIA 2 (CP) ................................................................................41
TEC261 TEC262 Civil Engineering and
Architecture–PLTW (H) ................................................................39
TEC281 TEC282 WEB DEVELOPMENT 2 (CP) .............................................................41
TEC291 TEC292 Electrical Engineering–PLTW (H) .....................................39
TEC301 TEC302 Principles of Engineering–PLTW (H) ..............................39
TEC351 TEC352 Computer Integrated
Manufacturing–PLTW (H) ............................................................39
TEC401 TEC402 ENGINEERING DESIGN AND
DEVELOPMENT–PLTW (H) .................................................................39
TEC501 TEC502 GAME DEVELOPMENT 1 (CP) .............................................................41
TEC511 TEC512 GAME DEVELOPMENT 2 (CP) ............................................................41
THR101 THR102 ACTING 1: confidence and
collaboration (CP) ...........................................................................60
THR111 THR112 ACTING 2: Character and comedy (CP) ............................60
THR121 THR122 ENTERTAINMENT PRODUCTION AND DESIGN (CP) ...........60
THR211 — ACTING 3 (CP) .............................................................................................61
— THR212 ACTING 4 (CP)..............................................................................................61
THR301 THR302 Theatre Leadership: Directing and
Management (CP) ...................................................................................61
THR401 THR402 ADVANCED ACTING (H) ..........................................................................61
THR601 THR602 LEADERSHIP IN THEATRE STUDIES (CP) .................................61
VOC071 VOC072 COMPUTER SUPPORT SERVICES ..................................................24
VOC111 VOC112 CRIMINAL JUSTICE ..................................................................................24
VOC121 VOC122 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CSI .......................................................24
VOC171 VOC172 GAME PROGRAMMING AND VIRTUALIZATION ........................24
VOC191 VOC192 cybersecurity .......................................................................................24
VOC221 VOC222 FIRE FIGHTING............................................................................................24
VOC291 VOC292 CERTIFIED NURSE ASSISTING ........................................................24
VOC311 VOC312 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES .................................................24
VOC321 VOC322 MEDICAL ASSISTING ..............................................................................24
VOC431 VOC432 AUTOMOTIVE COLLISION REPAIR 1 ..............................................24
VOC451 VOC452 AUTOMOTIVE COLLISION REPAIR 2 .............................................24
VOC471 VOC472 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE 1 ......................................................................24
VOC491 VOC492 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE 2.....................................................................24
VOC511 VOC512 CONSTRUCTION SKILLS AND MANAGEMENT 1 ...................24
VOC531 VOC532 CONSTRUCTION SKILLS AND MANAGEMENT 2 ..................24
VOC591 VOC592 COSMETOLOGY 1 .......................................................................................24
VOC611 VOC612 COSMETOLOGY 2 .....................................................................................24
VOC671 VOC672 MULTIMEDIA DESIGN 1 ..........................................................................24
VOC691 VOC692 MULTIMEDIA DESIGN 2 .........................................................................24
VOC711 voc712 Principles of biomedical science ....................................24
VOC871 VOC872 WELDING AND FABRICATION 1 .......................................................24
VOC891 VOC892 WELDING AND FABRICATION 2 ......................................................24
VOC911 VOC912 EARLY EDUCATION AND TEACHING 1 .........................................24
VOC931 VOC932 EARLY EDUCATION AND TEACHING 2........................................24
VOC951 VOC952 CULINARY ARTS 1 .....................................................................................24
VOC971 VOC972 CULINARY ARTS 2 ...................................................................................24
KEY: (CP) College Prep, (A) Accelerated, (H) Honors
COURSE LIST BY NUMBER 115

--- Page 118 ---
STUDENT SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
CONTACT INFORMATION
SARAH BOWEN, DIRECTOR |
SBOWEN@D125.ORG | 847-415-4501
Abygail Austin ........................................................847-415-4229
The Student Services Division is dedicated to supporting Director of Physical Welfare
all students in the development of the social-emotional
D’Wayne Bates .......................................................847-415-4226
skills: responsible decision-making, relationship skills, social
Director of Athletics
awareness, self awareness and self management, which are
Sarah Bowen .........................................................847-415-4501
necessary to achieve their goals of success in post-secondary
Director of Student Services
endeavors, and to positively contribute to a global society.
Dr. Wendy Custable ...............................................847-415-4201
The Student Services Division is composed of school
Assistant Superintendent of Leadership and
counselors, post-secondary counselors, a Career Resource
Organizational Development
Specialist, social workers, psychologists and a Substance
Dr. David Eddy .......................................................847-415-4461
Use Prevention Specialist who work collaboratively to
Director of Student Activities
ensure success for every student.
Brett Erdmann .......................................................847-415-4506
Director of Student Learning Programs
Dr. Laurie Feinzimer ..............................................847-415-4143
Director of Student Wellness Initiatives
Justin Fisk ..............................................................847-415-4701
Director of Multilingual Learning and ELD
Troy Gobble ...........................................................847-415-4105
Principal
Jon Grice ................................................................847-415-4751
Director of Fine Arts
Darshan Jain ..........................................................847-415-4600
Director of Mathematics
Doug Kahler ...........................................................847-415-4301
Director of Information Services
Jacqueline King .....................................................847-415-4151
Director of Applied Arts
Director of Computer Science, Engineering and Technology
Kimberly Musolf ....................................................847-415-4326
Director of Communication Arts
Mark Onuscheck ....................................................847-415-4124
Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment
Eric Ramos .............................................................847-415-4002
Co-Assistant Principal of Operations
Anthony Reibel ......................................................847-415-4201
Director of Assessment, Research and Evaluation
Brad Smith .............................................................847-415-4651
Director of Social Studies
Dr. Eric Twadell ......................................................847-415-4102
Superintendent
Traci Wallen ...........................................................847-415-4801
Director of Special Education
Dr. Steve Wood ......................................................847-415-4401
Director of Science
116 STUDENT SERVICES AND ADMINISTRATION CONTACT INFORMATION

--- Page 119 ---
TEEHSKROW
NALP
ESRUOC
RAEY-RUOF
NOISSIMDA
EGELLOC DETSEGGUS
MUMINIM
LOOHCS
HGIH
NOSNEVETS
ECNEUQES
STNEMERIUQER
NOITAUDARG
stiderc/sretsemes
8.....................................................
hsilgnE
stiderc/sretsemes
8................................
strA
noitacinummoC
erutaretil
dna noitacinummoc
laro dna nettirw
no sisahpmE
stiderc/sretsemes
6............................................
scitamehtaM
ETAD
EMAN
stiderc/sretsemes
6............................................
scitamehtaM
stiderc/sretsemes
2.....................................................
ygoloiB
ro/dna yrtemoeg ,arbegla
decnavda ,arbegla
gnidulcnI yrtemonogirt
stiderc/sretsemes
2.......................................
ecneicS
lacisyhP
RAEY
NOITAUDARG
ROLESNUOC
stiderc/sretsemes
6.....................................................
ecneicS
stiderc/sretsemes
2...............................................
yrotsiH
.S.U
noitadnuof a htiw
secneics yrotarobal
no sisahpmE
)S(ECIOHC
EGELLOC
stiderc/sretsemes
2..................
yhpargoeG
dna
yrotsiH
dlroW
scisyhp dna yrtsimehc
,ygoloib
ni
tiderc/retsemes
1.............................................
tnemnrevoG
stiderc/sretsemes
6...........................................
seidutS
laicoS
ROJAM/)S(LAOG
REERAC
tnemnrevog
dna yrotsih
no sisahpmE
tiderc/retsemes
1................
ecnaniF
lanosreP
ro scimonocE
stiderc/sretsemes
4...................................................
sevitcelE
tiderc/retsemes
1.......................................................
htlaeH
,strA deilppA ,gninraeL
laugnilitluM ni
sretsemes
ruoF
SEITIVITCA
RALUCIRRUC-OC
tiderc/retsemes
1.......................................
noitacudE
revirD
strA
eniF ro ygolonhceT
dna gnireenignE ,ecneicS
retupmoC
,strA
eniF( sevitcelE
deriuqeR
SBOJ/SEITIVITCA
EDISTUO
.dessap esruoc retsemes
hcae rof denrae
si tiderc
enO
stiderc/sretsemes
2....
)gninraeL
laugnilitluM
ro ,strA
deilppA
.llah yduts
ro hcnul rof denrae
si tiderc
oN
stiderc/sretsemes
71.....................
.E.P
dna stiderC
lanoitiddA
LAOG
EDARG
HT9
eht
ot refer ,scitelhta egelloc
ni etapicitrap
ot dnetni
uoy fI
stiderc/sretsemes
54.....................................
stiderC
latoT
gro.retnecytilibigile.www
ta enilno retneC
ytilibigilE
AACN
LAOG
EDARG
HT01
eb
tsum stset noitutitsnoC
laredeF dna sionillI
eht gnissaP
fo muminim
a eludehcs
dluohs
stneduts
dnuob-egelloC
eht
ni etapicitrap
oT .stnemeriuqer
noitaudarg teem
ot deveihca
edulcni
stinu
cimedacA
.retsemes
hcae stinu
cimedaca
ruof
LAOG
EDARG
HT11
.dessap
eb tsum tset ”tiderC
ht64“ eht ,ynomerec
noitaudarg
seidutS
laicoS
,ecneicS
,scitamehtaM
,strA
noitacinummoC
ssecorp
tuo-tpo eht etelpmoc
ro ASFAF a timbus
tsum stnedutS
yam
segelloc
niatreC
.sesruoc
gninraeL
laugnilitluM
dna
.etaudarg
ot redro
ni
rof strA
deilppA
ro
strA
eniF
ni sevitcele
lanoitidda
eriuqer
LAOG
EDARG
HT21
tcatnoc
ot
degaruocne
ylgnorts
era stnedutS
.noissimda
noitaudarg
a si gnirps eht ni
sroinuj ot nevig TCA
yad-loohcs
ehT
noitartsinimda
TCA rehto oN
.sionillI fo etatS eht
ni tnemeriuqer
stnedutS
.stnemeriuqer
noissimda
enimreted
ot
segelloc
,yhpargoeG
dna
yrotsiH
dlroW
,htlaeH
,noitacudE
revirD
,noitacudE
lacisyhP
:DDA
OT
SESRUOC
DERIUQER
.ecnatsissa
dezilanosrep
rof rolesnuoc
rieht ees
dluohs
(cid:17)(cid:87)neme(cid:85)i(cid:88)(cid:84)e(cid:85)
(cid:86)i(cid:75)(cid:87)
(cid:86)llfil(cid:88)(cid:73)
.tnemnrevoG
dna
ecnaniF
lanosreP/scimonocE
,yrotsiH
.S.U
RAEY
ROINES
RAEY
ROINUJ
RAEY
EROMOHPOS
RAEY
NAMHSERF
2 RETSEMES
1 RETSEMES
2
RETSEMES
1 RETSEMES
2
RETSEMES
1
RETSEMES
2
RETSEMES
1 RETSEMES
strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1
-2
-2
htaM-2
htaM-2
htaM-2
htaM-2
htaM-2
htaM-2
-3
-3
-3
-3
ecneicS-3
ecneicS-3
ecneicS-3
ecneicS-3
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4
-5
-5
-5
-5
-5
-5
-5
-5
-6
-6
-6
-6
-6
-6
-6
-6
7
-7
7
-7
7
-7
7
-7
-8
-8
-8
-8
-8
-8
-8
-8
:stiderC retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
loohcS remmuS
suoiverP
:stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP
:stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP
:stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP
:stiderC
raeY
latoT
:stiderC
raeY
latoT
:stiderC
raeY
latoT
:stiderC
raeY
latoT
sretsemes
7 refta stiderc
24 muminim :noitaudarG
sronoH
sretsemes 8 refta
stiderc 54 muminim
:noitaudarG
WWW.D125.ORG 117

--- Tables on Page 119 ---
Table 1:
NOISSIMDA
EGELLOC
DETSEGGUS | stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes
erutaretil strA
ro/dna ,strA eniF
dna yrtemoeg noitadnuof deilppA ro ygolonhceT
noitacinummoc
8..................................................... 6............................................ 6..................................................... 6........................................... 4...................................................
,gninraeL
a
,arbegla htiw tnemnrevog
dna
secneics scisyhp laugnilitluM gnireenignE
laro decnavda
dna yrotarobal dna dna
nettirw yrtsimehc yrotsih
ECNEUQES ,arbegla ni ,ecneicS
no scitamehtaM yrtemonogirt no seidutS no sretsemes
hsilgnE sisahpmE gnidulcnI ecneicS sisahpmE ,ygoloib sisahpmE sevitcelE retupmoC
laicoS
ruoF
ni | eht gro.retnecytilibigile.www
.dessap ot
refer
esruoc ,scitelhta
.llah
retsemes
yduts egelloc
ta
ro
hcae hcnul ni enilno
etapicitrap
rof rof retneC
denrae
denrae
ot ytilibigilE
si dnetni
tiderc si
tiderc
uoy AACN
enO
oN
fI

Table 2:
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | :stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS | :stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP | sretsemes
sretsemes
7
refta
stiderc 8
refta
24 stiderc
muminim
54
:stiderC muminim
:noitaudarG
raeY :noitaudarG
sronoH
latoT
2
RETSEMES
RAEY
ROINUJ
1
RETSEMES | strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1 | htaM-2
htaM-2 | -3
-3 | hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4 | -5
-5 | -6
-6 | 7
-7 | -8
-8 | :stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS | :stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP | :stiderC
raeY
latoT
2
RAEY RETSEMES
EROMOHPOS
1
RETSEMES | strA
noitacinummoC-1
strA
noitacinummoC-1 | htaM-2
htaM-2 | ecneicS-3
ecneicS-3 | hcnuL-4
hcnuL-4 | -5
-5 | -6
-6 | 7
-7 | -8
-8 | :stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS | :stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP | :stiderC
raeY
latoT
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | :stiderC
retsemeS
:stiderC
retsemeS | :stiderC
loohcS
remmuS
suoiverP | :stiderC
raeY
latoT

Table 3:
MUMINIM
LOOHCS
HGIH
NOSNEVETS | stiderc/sretsemes
stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes stiderc/sretsemes
tiderc/retsemes tiderc/retsemes tiderc/retsemes tiderc/retsemes
STNEMERIUQER
8................................ 6............................................ 2..................................................... 2....................................... 2............................................... 2.................. 1............................................. 1................ 1....................................................... 1....................................... 2.... 71..................... 54.....................................
)gninraeL
yhpargoeG ecnaniF ,strA laugnilitluM
.E.P
eniF(
lanosreP dna
NOITAUDARG strA
dna sevitcelE stiderC
noitacinummoC ecneicS noitacudE ro
scitamehtaM yrotsiH yrotsiH tnemnrevoG ro scimonocE ,strA lanoitiddA stiderC
deriuqeR
ygoloiB lacisyhP dlroW htlaeH revirD deilppA latoT
.S.U

--- Page 120 ---
NOSNEVETS
.E
IALDA
ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL | HOME OF THE PATRIOTS ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL | HOME OF THE PATRIOTS
WHO WAS ADLAI E. STEVENSON?
Adlai Ewing Stevenson II (February 5, 1900–July 14, 1965)
was one of the most famous public figures in America during
the middle of the 20th century. He was the Democratic Party
nominee for president of the United States in 1952 and 1956,
served one term as governor of the state of Illinois (1948-52)
and was the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations during
the Cuban missile crisis.
Stevenson’s father, Lewis, was Illinois Secretary of State
from 1914-1917 and his grandfather, Adlai E. Stevenson,
was the nation’s 23rd vice president, serving under
President Grover Cleveland from 1893-97. Stevenson was
regarded as one of the most intelligent and finest orators
in American political history.
For much of his adult life, Stevenson lived on St. Mary’s Road
near Libertyville. His home today has been transformed into
the Adlai Stevenson Center on Democracy. On July 14, 1965,
Stevenson died of a heart attack. District 125 school board
members voted later that month to name the newly formed
district and its new high school in his honor. Adlai E. Stevenson
High School opened in August 1965.
ADLAI E. STEVENSON, THEN GOVERNOR OF ILLINOIS, SPEAKS
WITH PRESIDENT HARRY TRUMAN IN THE OVAL OFFICE.

--- Page 121 ---
ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL SERVING THE COMMUNITIES OF:
LINCOLNSHIRE • LONG GROVE • PRAIRIE VIEW
1 STEVENSON DRIVE | LINCOLNSHIRE, IL 60069
AND PORTIONS OF: BUFFALO GROVE • DEERFIELD • HAWTHORN WOODS •
(847) 415-4000 | D125.ORG INDIAN CREEK • KILDEER • LAKE FOREST • METTAWA • MUNDELEIN •
PALATINE • RIVERWOODS • VERNON HILLS • WHEELING
FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA
D125.ORG ADLAI E. STEVENSON @STEVENSONHS

--- Tables on Page 121 ---
Table 1:
 | 

Table 2:
 | 

